
	note. acas i is not intended for international implementation and standardization by icao. therefore, only acas i characteristics required to ensure compatible operation with other acas configurations and interference limiting are defined in 4.2.
 
 (annex 8)"
 auxiliary power-unit (apu). a self-contained power-unit on an aircraft providing electrical/pneumatic power to aircraft systems during ground operations.(icao annex 16)"
 e.g.:
 maintenance. the performance of tasks required to ensure the continuing airworthiness of an aircraft, including any one or combination of overhaul, inspection, replacement, defect rectification, and the embodiment of a modification or repair.
 manifold pressure means absolute pressure as measured at the appropriate point in the induction system (faa 14, part 1)
 minimum equipment list (mel). a list which provides for the operation of aircraft, subject to specified conditions, with particular equipment inoperative, prepared by an operator in conformity with, or more restrictive than, the mmel established for the aircraft type."
 operations manual. a manual containing procedures, instructions and guidance for use by operational personnel in the execution of their duties.
 propeller: a device for propelling an aircraft that has blades on an engine-driven shaft and that, when rotated, produces by its action on the air, a thrust approximately perpendicular to its plane of rotation. (faa)"
"
(an 6/i, an 6/ii, an 6/iii, pans-abc)"
3420 attitude and direction data system related event  
	an event involving the system components and parts which use magnetic, gyroscopic, and inertia forces to indicate an aircraft attitude and direction. includes such items as the inertial reference system (irs).
[as required]
	
[as required]
	nacelle section skins, primary structure, secondary structure, fillets, and fairings of a complete nacelle with any structural differences grouped together and highlighted by specific nacelle designator. the section locations shall be defined by manufacturing joints or other suitable demarcations in a logical sequence.
[as required]
	pylon section skins, primary structure, secondary structure, fillets, and fairings of a complete pylon with any structural differences grouped together and highlighted by specific pylon designator. the section locations shall be defined by manufacturing joints or other suitable demarcations in a logical sequence.
[as required]
	reserved for use in those cases where the number of breakouts provided by the fourth digit of the -20 breakout is not sufficient to cover all of the maintenance checks dictated by subsystem -10 above. note: inclusion of the data described in -10 through -40 above, in any manual or manual publication is specifically prohibited unless required by government regulation. airlines desire the manufacturer's recommended time limits and scheduled maintenance checks but these should be provided in a separate document.
[available]
	
a system that provides an automatic and selective method of calling any aircraft. voice calling is replaced by the transmission of code tones to the aircraft over the international radiotelephony channels. 
ac electrical load distribution
	that portion of the system which provides for connection of ac power to using systems. includes items such as ac main and secondary busses, main system circuit breakers, power system devices, etc.
ac generation
	that portion of the systems used to generate, regulate, control, and indicate ac electrical power. includes items such as inverters, ac generators/alternators, control and regulating components, indicating systems, etc., all wiring to but not including main busses.
acas i. an acas which provides information as an aid to ""see and avoid"" action but does not include the capability for generating resolution advisories (ras).
acas ii. an acas which provides vertical resolution advisories (ras) in addition to traffic advisories (tas).
acas iii. an acas which provides vertical and horizontal resolution advisories (ras) in addition to traffic advisories (tas)."
accessory compartment doors  
	accessory compartment doors: the exterior doors used primarily to gain access for servicing the accessory compartment. typical parts are hinges, structure and the latch mechanism.
accessory compartments
	those compartments used for the housing of various components or accessories. includes wheel wells, tail-hydraulic-electrical/ electronic equipment racks, main battery structure, etc.
accessory compartments  
	accessory compartments: the compartments for housing various components or accessories.
accessory compartments  
	accessory compartments: the compartments used for the housing of various components and accessories. includes wheel wells, tail-hydraulic-electrical/electronic equipment racks and main battery structure.
accessory gearbox system wiring  
	wiring specific to the accessory gearbox
accessory gearboxes  
	accessory gearboxes: the units and components which are remote but connected to the engine by a drive shaft and which does not include those accessory drives which are bolted to and are immediately adjacent to the engine [code 11720000]. does not include accessory drives bolted to and adjacent to engine [code 11726000].
accessory gearboxes gearbox section  
	the case which contains the gear trains and shafts.  includes items such as gears, shafts, seals, oil pumps, coolers, etc
aerial tow equipment  
	the aerial towing equipment including the attachments on fuselage and release mechanism.
aerodynamic fairings
	
aerodynamic load alleviating
	the system or portion of the system that automatically corrects/provides for gust loading / upset, aerodynamic augmentation/alleviation/suppression, ride control, etc. this includes sensing, computing, actuating, indicating internal monitoring, warning devices, etc.
aerodynamic load alleviation  
	aerodynamic load alleviation: the system that corrects and provides for gust loading/upset, aerodynamic augmentation, alleviation, suppression and ride control automatically. this includes sensing, computing, actuating, indicating, internal monitoring and warning devices.
aerofoil anti/de-ice system  
	aerofoil anti/de-ice system: the system components and parts including the boots which provide for wing and empennage leading edge ice prevention or removal. does not include ducts upstream of the aerofoil control/selector valves. typical parts are timer, valve, switch, hose, flow valve, duct, duct coupling and thermostat.
agricultural equipment  
	agricultural equipment: the additional special equipment attached to an aircraft to equip it for specific agricultural work.
agricultural spray system  
	agricultural spray system includes equipment such as hopper, tank, spray nozzle, boom, pump, bracket, valve.
agricultural spray system  
	agricultural spray system: the aerial application equipment such as hopper, tank, spray nozzle, boom, pump, bracket and valves.
aileron & tab control system  
	" aileron control system: the portion of the systems which controls the position and movement of the aileron. includes items such as the control column, tab control wheel, cables, boosters, linkages, control surfaces and position indicators.
aileron and tab
	that portion of the systems which controls the position and movement of the ailerons/elevons and tabs. includes items such as the control wheels, cables, boosters, linkages, control surfaces, indicators, etc.
aileron structure  
	aileron structure: the structural aspects of the aileron mounted on the trailing edge of wing. includes hinges and balance weights. does not include operating mechanism.
aileron tab control system  
	aileron tab control system: the system components and parts controlling movement and position of the trim tab on the aileron. includes the cockpit control. typical parts are jackscrew, cable, pulley, turnbuckle and stops.
aileron tab structure  
	aileron tab structure: the surface mounted at the trailing edge of the aileron for lateral trim. typical parts are spar, skin, hinge, bracket, bolt and bearings,
aileron trim system  
	aileron trim system: the system components and parts controlling movement and position of the trim tab on the aileron. includes the cockpit control. typical parts are jackscrew, cable, pulley, turnbuckle and stops.
aileron: a control surface on fixed-wing aircraft, usually mounted on the aft edge of wings, that controls roll, and is controlled by the wheel"
ailerons and elevons
	skins and structure of wing-mounted spoilers, airbrakes, lift dumpers, attach/attached fittings, etc.
ailerons and elevons  
	ailerons and elevons the skins and structure of ailerons and elevons and tabs including balancing devices and attachment fittings.
air
	for definitions see chapter 75.
air conditioning and pressurization system related event  
	an event involving miscellaneous parts that cannot be associated with specific air conditioning, pressurization, or distribution codes e.g. lines or hoses. also, for those units and components furnishing a means of pressurizing, heating, cooling, moisture controlling, filtering, and treating the air used to ventilate areas of the fuselage within the pressure vessel.
air conditioning compartment doors  
	air conditioning compartment doors: the exterior doors used primarily to gain access for servicing the air conditioning compartment system and components. typical parts are hinges, structure and the latch mechanism.
air conditioning system  
	air conditioning system: examples are lines and hoses with no reference to the specific using system and those units and components furnishing a means of pressurizing, heating, cooling, moisture controlling, filtering, and treating the air used to ventilate areas of the fuselage within the pressure vessel.
air conditioning system wiring  
	wiring specific to the air conditioning system.
air data computer  
	" air data computer: the computer and its integral parts which receives data from various environmental sensing systems, computes this data and makes it available to the various navigation systems. does not include external hardware such as cables, mounting racks and remote switches. [code 11341000].
air data computer: a primary navigation data source. a navigation sensor based on atmospheric data sensors; usually measures static pressure, dynamic pressure, and outside air temperature; sometimes computes other atmospheric data, such as indicated airspeed, mach number, calibrated airspeed "
air distribution fan  
	air distribution fan: includes associated motor which distributes air within the confines for comfort or equipment cooling. typical parts are bearings, bushings and motors.
air distribution system  
	that portion of the system used to induct and distribute air. includes equipment rack cooling systems and items such as blowers, scoops, ducting, inlets, check valves, wiring, etc. does not include valves which are part of pressurization and temperature control.
air intake anti/de-ice system  
	air intake anti/de-ice system: the system and components which eliminate or prevent the formation of ice in or around air intakes such as turbine engine cowling. does not include engine anti-icing reports [code 11751000]. includes the electrically heated boot at the air intake lips.
air intakes
	that portion of the system which is used to eliminate or prevent the formation of ice in or around air intakes. includes power plant cowling anti-icing.
air supply
	that portion of the system common to more than one sub -system which is used for pressurizing supply tanks to insure fluid flow.
air supply (water pressure system)  
	air supply (water pressure system): the system which provides the pressure to distribute potable water to the lavatories. typical parts are pump, motor and lines.
air traffic control transponder system  
	air traffic control transponder system: the air traffic control system which receives coded signals from a ground station and transmits a coded reply for altitude reporting and identification purposes. typical parts are transponder, antenna, control unit, transceiver and coaxial connecting cable.
airborne auxiliary power unit system  
	" the airborne auxiliary power units installed on aircraft for the purpose of generating and supplying a single type or combination of auxiliary electric, hydraulic, pneumatic or other power. does not include generators, alternators or hydraulic pumps, or their connecting systems which supply and deliver power to their respective aircraft systems.
airborne collision avoidance system (acas). an aircraft system based on secondary surveillance radar (ssr) transponder signals which operates independently of ground-based equipment to provide advice to the pilot on potential conflicting aircraft that are equipped with ssr transponders. (annex 10, vol 4, chapter 1)
airborne collision avoidance system/traffic alert and collision avoidance system related event  
	an event involving the system which provides information to determine aircraft position and is primarily independent of ground installations (i.e., traffic alert and collision avoidance system tcas). typical parts are collision avoidance monitoring units.
aircraft elevator related event  
	an event involving the structural aspects of the movable aerofoil hinged to the horizontal stabilizer for longitudinal control. includes the 'ruddervator' on v-tail aircraft and balance weights. does not include the stabilator structure.
aircraft empennage structure related event  
	an event involving the horizontal and vertical stabilizers including the structure of the elevator and rudder. this code is also used for reports that pertain to flying wires.
aircraft engine nacelle or pylon structure related event  
	an event involving the structural units and associated components and members which furnish a means of mounting and housing the power plant or rotor assembly. includes the structure of power plant cowling inclusive of the structural portion of the inlet whether or not integral with the aircraft. structural portions of the exhaust system are excluded where they are not integral with the airframe.
aircraft equipment/furnishing related event  
	an event involving the removable items of equipment and furnishings mounted or contained in the flight, passenger, cargo and accessory compartments.
aircraft flight control related event  
	an event involving the units and components furnishing a means of manually controlling the flight attitude characteristics of the aircraft. also includes the functioning and maintenance aspects of the flaps, spoilers and other control surfaces, but does not include the structure. does not include rotorcraft flight controls. typical parts are hydraulic boost system, controls and mounting brackets.
aircraft fuel system  
	aircraft fuel system: the units and components storing and delivering fuel to the engine. includes the integral tank leak detection and sealing. does not include the structure of integral, tip fuel tanks, fuel cell backing boards, or the fuel flow rate sensing, transmitting, or indicating systems.
aircraft fuels and any additives in the fuel  
	the aircraft fuels and any additives contained in the fuel. 
aircraft general information system  
	aircraft general information system: the units and components which furnish a means of storing, updating and retrieving digital information on the aircraft, that are traditionally provided on paper, microfilm, or microfiche. includes units that are dedicated to the information storage and retrieval function such as the electronic library mass storage and controller.
aircraft lighting related event  
	an event involving the units and components which provide for external and internal illumination. includes light fixtures, switches and wiring. does not include warning lights for individual systems.
aircraft performance related event  
	an event involving the published performance of the aircraft.
aircraft rudder related event  
	an event involving the structural aspects of the vertical aerofoil hinged to the vertical stabilizer. does not include the actuators, actuator mechanism or mounting. typical parts are hinge, hinge fittings, bearing, bolt and miscellaneous structure.
aircraft structures  
	aircraft structures: repairs to aircraft structures of a general nature.
aircraft windows/windshields related event  
	an event involving the fuselage and crew compartment windows inclusive of windshields.
aircraft wing structure related event  
	an event involving the centre wing and outer wing structural units and associated components and members which support the aircraft in flight. this code should be used for general reports of the primary wing structure.
aircraft's doors related event  
	an event involving any of the removable units used for entrance or exit and for enclosing other structure contained within the fuselage. includes passenger and crew doors, cargo doors and emergency exits. electrical and hydraulic systems associated with door control are included as appropriate.
aircraft's fuselage structure related event  
	an event involving the structural units and associated components and members which make up the compartments for crew, passengers, equipment, cargo and the structure of the envelope and gondola of airships.
airfoil
	that portion of the system which is used to eliminate or prevent the formation of ice on all airfoil surfaces. includes wings, airfoil sections of the empennage, and pylons.
airframe means the fuselage, booms, nacelles, cowlings, fairings, aerofoil surfaces (including
airplane general information systems
	
airspeed/mach indication  
	airspeed/mach indication: the instrument which measures and indicates speed of the aircraft. does not include the doppler indicator [code 11344300].
alternating current generation system  
	alternating current generation system: the systems used to generate, regulate, control and indicate alternating current electrical power. includes items such as inverters, alternating current generators/alternators, control and regulating components, indicating systems and all wiring to but not including main busses.
alternating current generator - alternator  
	alternating current generator - alternator: the engine driven component that generates alternating current for aircraft with alternating current electrical systems. does not include alternating current alternators on light piston-engine power aircraft with direct current electrical systems.
alternating current indicating system  
	alternating current indicating system: the equipment indicating, voltage, current flow and system faults in the alternating current power systems.
alternating current inverter  
	alternating current inverter: the component which converts direct current to alternating current.
alternating current power distribution system  
	alternating current power distribution system: the electrical system which provides for connection of alternating current to using systems. does not include the using system. typical parts are main and secondary system bus, circuit breaker, limiter, jumper and load meter switch.
alternating current voltage regulator  
	alternating current voltage regulator: the component that regulates the alternating current voltage from the alternator-generator to maintain a set voltage output for the using systems i.e. generator control unit.
alternator-generator drive  
	alternator-generator drive: the alternator and generator drives mounted on reciprocating engines. does not include alternator cases. typical parts are bracket, pulley, belt, link, idler pulley, bolt, drive shaft and gears that stay with the alternator. includes constant speed drive unit mounted on turbine engines to drive alternating current producing alternators at a predetermined and constant rpm. typical parts are shaft seal and shafts.
altitude controller  
	altitude controller: the units transmitting output information signals to maintain a predetermined altitude, rate of climb or descent automatically. does not include the connecting system parts such as the sensor switch.
an event related to escape chute/slides  
	
analyzers
	that portion of the system which is used to analyze engine performance or condition by means of instruments or devices such as oscilloscopes, etc. includes items such as generators, wiring, amplifiers, oscilloscopes, etc.
antenna/radome anti-ice/de-ice system  
	antenna/radome anti-ice/de-ice system: the system which is used to remove ice from, or prevent the formation of ice on, antennas and radomes.
antennas and radomes
	that portion of the system which is used to eliminate or prevent the formation of ice on antennas and radomes.
anti-skid system related event  
	an event involving the system units and parts which automatically control brake pressure during landing roll to prevent tyre skidding. typical parts are transducer, control box and valve.
anti-torque rotor control (yaw control)
	that portion of the controls which control the direction of the helicopter (yaw control). includes items such as tail rotor control pedals, relevant linkage and cable controls, bellcranks constituting the yaw control channel and the control position indicating system.
anti-torque rotor control (yaw control)  
	that portion of the controls which control the direction of the helicopter (yaw control). includes items such as tail rotor control pedals, relevant linkage and cable controls, bellcranks constituting the yaw control channel and the control position indicating system.
apu system wiring  
	wiring specific to the apu system.
attach fittings
	
attach fittings
	those fittings and brackets which are used for the support of equipment in and about the power package.
attachment fitting (nacelle/pylon)  
	attachment fitting (nacelle/pylon): the fittings on the nacelles/pylons used for the attachment to its connecting structure, powerplant, thrust reverser and for the support of equipment within the nacelle/pylon.
attachment fitting [empennage flight control surfaces]  
	attachment fitting [empennage flight control surfaces]: the fittings on the empennage structure which are used for the support of the flight control aerofoils.
attitude and direction
	the portion of the system which uses magnetic or inertia forces to sense and display the direction or attitude of the aircraft. this includes sensing, computing, indicating and warning devices such as magnetic compasses, vertical and directional references, magnetic heading systems, attitude director systems, symbol generators, turn and bank, rate of turn, amplifiers, indicators, etc. includes flight director when it is not integral with the auto pilot computation.
attitude and direction data system  
	attitude and direction data system: the system components and parts which use magnetic, gyroscopic and inertia forces to indicate an aircraft's attitude and direction. includes such items as the inertial reference system.
attitude gyro and indicating system  
	attitude gyro and indicating system: the gyroscopic unit which supplies attitude information to the necessary systems; e.g. vertical reference outputs for use as roll and pitch data to the autopilot computer. includes the instruments relying on a gyroscope to display their information. typical parts are vertical gyro and the gyro horizon.
audio & video monitoring
	those installations that record, or monitor crew or passenger conversation or movement for security or safety purposes. includes voice recorders, television, monitors, externally mounted camera, etc.
audio integrating
	that portion of the system which controls the output of the communications and navigation receivers into the flight crew headphones and speakers and the output of the flight crew microphones into the communications transmitters. includes items such as audio selector control panel, micro-phones, headphones, cockpit loudspeakers, etc.
audio integrating system  
	audio integrating system: the system components and parts including the control panel and amplifier which controls output of communications and navigation receivers into flight crew headphones and speakers. also includes output from microphones into communications transmitters. typical parts are microphones, cockpit speakers and headphones.
audio/video monitoring  
	audio/video monitoring: those installations that record, or monitor crew or passenger conversation or movement or provide external monitoring for security or safety purposes. includes externally mounted cameras, voice and video recorders used for aircraft operations.
auto throttle
	that portion of the system that automatically controls the position of the throttles to properly manage engine power during all phases of flight/attitude. this includes engaging, sensing, computing, amplifying, controlling, actuating and warning devices such as amplifiers, computers, servos, limit switches, clutches, gear boxes, warning lights, etc.
auto throttle system  
	auto throttle system: the system that automatically controls the position of the throttles to manage engine power properly during all phases of flight/attitude. this includes engaging, sensing, computing, amplifying, controlling, actuating and warning devices. typical parts are amplifiers, computers, servos, limit switches, clutches, gearboxes and warning lights.
autoflight system  
	autoflight system: the units and components that furnish a means of automatically controlling the flight of the aircraft. includes those units and components controlling direction, heading, attitude, altitude and speed.
autoflight system related event  
	an event involving the units and components that furnish a means of automatically controlling flight of the aircraft. includes those units and components controlling direction, heading, attitude, altitude, and speed.
automatic data reporting system  
	automatic data reporting system: the systems and components used for collating and computing data from unrelated systems and transmitting the same automatically. includes 'aircraft to satellite data relay' (asdar) system and components.
automatic data reporting systems
	those systems and components used for collating and computing data from unrelated systems and transmitting same automatically. includes asdar systems and components.
automatic deployable elt (elt(ad)).  an elt which is rigidly attached to an aircraft and which is automatically deployed and activated by impact, and, in some cases, also by hydrostatic sensors.  manual deployment is also provided.
automatic direction finder system  
	automatic direction finder system: the low frequency band system which receives a signal from a non-directional radio beacon to determine relative bearing from the beacon location [automatic direction finder system]. typical parts are antenna, control unit, receiver and coaxial cable.
automatic fixed elt (elt(af)).  an automatically activated elt which is permanently attached to an aircraft.
automatic portable elt (elt(ap)).  an automatically activated elt which is rigidly attached to an aircraft but readily removable from the aircraft.
autopilot
	that portion of the system that uses radio/radar signals, directional and vertical references, air data (pitot static), computed flight path data, or manually induced inputs to the system to automatically control the flight path of the aircraft through adjustment to the pitch/roll/yaw axis or wing lift characteristics and provide visual cues for flight path guidance, i.e.: integrated flight director. this includes power source devices, interlocking devices and amplifying, computing, integrating, controlling, actuating, indicating and warning devices such as computers, servos, control panels, indicators, warning lights, etc.
autopilot computer  
	autopilot computer: typical parts are resistors, circuit board, capacitor and power supply.
autopilot main servo  
	autopilot main servo: the units connected to primary flight control actuating mechanisms which are used to reposition control surfaces mechanically in accordance with electrical or pneumatic signals from a controller.
autopilot system  
	that portion of the system that uses radio/radar signals, directional and vertical references, air data pitot-static, computed flight path data, or manually induced inputs to the system to automatically control the flight path of the aircraft through adjustment to the pitch/roll/yaw axis or wing lift characteristics and provide visual cues for flight path guidance, i.e.: integrated flight director. this includes power source devices, interlocking devices and amplifying, computing, integrating, controlling, actuating, indicating and warning devices such as computers, servos, control panels, indicators, warning lights, etc.
autopilot trim indicator  
	autopilot trim indicator: the instrument [or indicator] and associated circuitry that indicates the trim position selected by the pilot.
autopilot trim servo  
	autopilot trim servo: the units that are mechanically connected to flight control cables for making minor corrections in aircraft attitude or direction.
auxiliary
	that portion of the system which is classified as auxiliary, emergency or standby, and which is used to supplement or take the place of the main hydraulic system. includes items such as tanks and accumulators which are separate from the main system, hand pumps, auxiliary pumps, valves, plumbing, wiring, etc.
auxiliary landing gear  
	auxiliary landing gear: the devices such as tail skids on tricycle gear aircraft used to stabilize the aircraft on the ground and to prevent ground contact damage. includes supplementary wheels on rotorcraft, skids for ground handling but not for skids or amphibian/seaplane floats, hull or associated retractable landing gear. does not include auxiliary or emergency landing gear extension systems [code 11323000].
auxiliary landing gear related event  
	an event involving the devices such as tail skids on tricycle gear aircraft used to stabilize the aircraft on the ground and to prevent ground contact damage. this code is also used for supplementary wheels on rotorcraft, skids for ground handling but not for skids or amphibian/seaplane floats, hull or associated retractable landing gear. does not include auxiliary or emergency landing gear extension systems.
auxiliary power unit bleed air system  
	auxiliary power unit bleed air system: the system and components which provide and control a source of pressure and high volume of air for aircraft using systems such as engine starting and cabin air conditioning, prior to starting engines. typical parts are duct, bleed valve, clamp and seal.
auxiliary power unit controls  
	auxiliary power unit controls: the system components which electrically and manually control operation of the apu engine. typical parts are relay and control box.
auxiliary power unit core engine  
	auxiliary power unit core engine: the basic apu engine including the compressor, turbine, cases other than specific sub-systems such as fuel, ignition, exhaust, starting and controls. typical parts are turbine, bearing, seal, impeller, blade, case and burner can.
auxiliary power unit cowling/containment  
	" auxiliary power unit cowling/containment: the system of cowling and other components used to cover the auxiliary power unit and contain any broken parts in the event of an external failure.
auxiliary power unit door  
	auxiliary power unit door: the aircraft doors used to gain access for servicing the apu and components. typical parts are hinges, structure and the latch mechanism.
auxiliary power unit exhaust system  
	auxiliary power unit exhaust system: the components and parts which collect and direct exhaust gasses from the apu turbine to the aircraft exterior. includes the movable door fairing. typical parts are nozzle, door, actuator, seal, clamp and shield.
auxiliary power unit fuel and control  
	auxiliary power unit fuel and control: the system and components which furnish fuel from the aircraft tanks to the apu fuel control and associated injector nozzles, including the unit which provides fuel at the proper pressure for fuel control operation and the unit controlling and injecting metered fuel to the engine burner can section. typical parts are shutoff valve, line and fittings.
auxiliary power unit indicating system  
	auxiliary power unit indicating system: the apu operation indicating system including the temperature indicator, tachometer generator or indicator (engine speed). includes the instrument and associated warning system which sense, transmits and indicates apu engine speed and temperature.
auxiliary power unit oil system  
	auxiliary power unit oil system: the system and components used for apu engine lubrication. typical parts are filter, pump, relief valve, hose and line.
auxiliary power unit related event  
	an event involving the airborne auxiliary power units (apu) installed on aircraft for the purpose of generating and supplying a single type or combination of auxiliary electric, hydraulic, pneumatic or other power. does not include generators, alternators, hydraulic pumps or their connecting systems which supply and deliver power to their respective aircraft systems.
auxiliary power unit start/ignition system  
	auxiliary power unit start/ignition system: the system units used to start the apu engine, including the unit which provides a power source to the igniter during the starting cycle. typical parts are ignition unit, magneto, igniter and starter.
auxiliary structure
	
balloon/dirigible components  
	balloon/dirigible components: all balloons, airships and dirigible components irrespective of location or component involved. also includes reports for water ballast which are normally filed under water ballast.
barometric altimeter/encoder  
	the altimeters and barometric encoders used to measure and indicate altitude. also includes the unit which senses and provides an alert of a change in a pre-selected altitude. does not include the ground proximity systems. [code 11344400.] typical parts are dial, case, pointer and springs.
battery box structure  
	battery box structure: the supporting structure, vents and overboard drains for aircraft batteries. typical parts are vent cap, drain tube, insulator and cover.
battery overheat warning system  
	battery overheat warning system: the system components that sense and indicate, or warn of, a battery over-temperature condition. typical parts are sensor, lamp and gauge.
battery/charger system  
	battery/charger system: the component providing a source of direct current voltage and current flow independent of rotating generators and alternators. typical parts are battery charger, cell, case and post.
bleed air indicating system  
	bleed air indicating system: the systems which indicate temperature, pressure, control positions and warning indications of turbine engine compressor bleed air systems in turbine engines. typical parts are transmitter, sensor, indicator, lamp and pressure switch.
brake anti-skid section  
	brake anti-skid section: the system units and parts which automatically control brake pressure during landing roll to prevent tyre skidding. typical parts are transducer, control box and valves.
braking
	that portion of the system which is used to decrease run -down time or stop propeller rotation during engine power -off conditions. includes brake mechanisms, levers, pulleys, cables, switches, wiring, plumbing, etc.
buffet / galley
	the areas in which food and beverages are stored and prepared. includes items such as removable and fixed cabinets, ovens, refrigerators, garbage containers, dish racks, coffee maker and dispensers, containers, electrical outlets, wiring, etc.
buffet/galleys  
	the buffet/galley equipment. typical components are hot plates, coffee pots, food carts, ovens, trays, relays, switches, connectors and dispensers.
buffet/galleys related event  
	an event involving the galley equipment. typical parts are hot plate, coffee pot, food carts, ovens, tray, pad, relay, switch, connector and dispenser.
bulkhead/firewall (nacelle/pylon)  
	the bulkhead or firewall structure of the nacelles or pylons.
cabin compressor system  
	cabin compressor system: includes items such as controls and indicating systems related to the compressors and wiring, but does not include the pressure control and indicating system for the cabin pressurization.
cabin cooling system  
	cabin cooling system: the units and systems supplying cooled air to the cockpit or cabin. does not include the temperature control and indicating system. typical parts are flow valve, relay, condenser, ram air sensor, heat exchanger, cooling turbine and air cycle machine.
cabin core system  
	cabin core system: the portion of the cabin system used to accomplish the integrated functional control, operation, testing and monitoring of cabin systems and to increase cabin comfort (such as active noise control). includes items such as controllers, cabin control panels, handsets, signs and loudspeakers.
cabin equipment/furnishings  
	cabin equipment/furnishings: the removable items of equipment and furnishings mounted or contained in the flight, passenger, cargo, accessory compartments.
cabin mass memory system  
	cabin mass memory system: that portion of the cabin mass memory system used to store and process cabin related data, such as systems configuration data and multimedia programs. includes items such as controllers, terminals, keyboards, disk drives, printers and modems.
cabin monitoring system  
	cabin monitoring system: the portion of the cabin system used to monitor parts of the cabin area. includes items such as surveillance cameras and monitors. does not include external anti-hijack devices or external video monitoring.
cabin pressure control system  
	cabin pressure control system: the miscellaneous system components or parts of the cabin pressure control system other than the controller, indicator, sensor, regulator and outflow valves. typical parts are amplifier, switch and electrical connectors.
cabin systems  
	cabin systems: the units and components which furnish a means of entertaining the passengers and providing communication within the aircraft and between the aircraft cabin and ground stations. includes voice, data, music and video transmissions.
cabin systems wiring  
	wiring specific to the cabin systems.
cabin temperature control system  
	cabin temperature control system: the units and circuitry other than the control unit which are used for controlling the temperature of the air in the cockpit and cabin. typical parts are control valves, thermal sensing devices, switches, amplifiers and wiring.
cabin temperature indicator  
	the cabin temperature indicators, lamps and associated circuitry which indicate the air temperature in the cabin.
cabin temperature sensor  
	the cabin temperature sensors and associated circuitry which sense the temperature of the air in the cabin and relay a signal to the indicator.
canard  
	canard: the smaller surface on an aeroplane providing stability or a means of control and placed forward of the main lifting surface.
cargo
	exterior doors used primarily to gain access to cargo compartments. includes items such as structure, latching mechanisms, handles, insulation, lining, controls, integral steps, ramps, handrails, attach/attached fittings, etc.
cargo and accessory compartments  
	" cargo and accessory compartments: the compartments for storage of cargo and various components and accessories. includes those systems used to load/unload cargo and other cargo related systems.
cargo and accessory compartments  
	cargo compartments: the compartments for the storage of baggage and cargo including external mounted pods. does not include the exterior door, hinges and latches [code 11523000]. typical parts are tie downs, restraint nets and equipment for loading and unloading cargo (includes rotorcraft cargo handling equipment).
cargo and accessory compartments wiring  
	wiring specific to the cargo and accessory compartments
cargo and service compartments
	the lighting sub-systems in the compartments for stowage of cargo and the housing of various components of accessories.
cargo compartments
	those compartments for storage of cargo and those components which are or can be mounted on the aircraft and used to load/unload, restrain, guide or service cargo. includes drive systems, rollers, latches, restraint nets, etc.
cargo compartments  
	" cargo compartments: the compartments designed and designated for storage of cargo and baggage.
cargo loading system  
	cargo loading system: the systems with components which are, or can be, mounted on the aircraft and used to load/unload, restrain or guide cargo. includes drive systems, rollers, latches and restraint nets.
cargo related systems  
	cargo related systems: the systems which are related to loading/unloading of cargo. includes aircraft levelling and loader alignment systems. does not include cargo loading systems.
cargo. any property carried on an aircraft other than mail, stores and accompanied or mishandled baggage. icao annex 9."
cargo/accessory compartment insulation  
	cargo/accessory compartment insulation: the insulation blankets which are used for heat and sound insulation. includes cargo compartments, accessory compartments and insulation.
cargo/baggage doors  
	cargo/baggage doors: the exterior doors used to gain access to cargo or baggage storage areas. does not include door frames on fuselage, door warning or compartment interior furnishings. typical parts are door structure, seal, hinge, latch, latch pin, handle and skin.
cargo/servicing compartment lighting  
	cargo/servicing compartment lighting: the lighting systems in the compartments used for storage of cargo, baggage, or aircraft system components which require servicing. does not include electrical systems, fire or smoke sensing. typical parts are circuit breaker, lamp, lens and switch.
center
	wing skins, primary structure, fillets, and fairings of the center wing, and attach / attached fittings.
central computers
	those systems and components used for computing data from a number of different sources without a preponderance of functions in any one system. includes items such as digital core avionic system (dcas), stored check list, emergency procedures, company regulations, etc., for call up on a display, integrated instrument systems such as engine, airplane power and central warning indicators when combined into a central display.
central computers  
	central computers: the systems and components used for computing data from a number of different sources without a preponderance of functions in any one system, for call up on a display. includes integrated instrument systems such as engine, aeroplane power and central warning indicators when combined into a central display. typical parts are "digital core avionic system" (dcas), "engine indication and crew alerting system" (eicas), stored checklist, emergency procedures and company regulations.
central display system  
	central display system: the systems and components which give visual display of conditions in unrelated systems.
central display systems
	those systems and components which give visual display of conditions in unrelated systems.
central maintenance computer  
	central maintenance computer: the unit, components and associated systems which interface with other airplane systems and provide a convenient way of communicating system problems to aircraft maintenance personnel. the system contains checkout and fault isolation procedures using a central computer to locate a single system or component malfunction. typical parts are computer, storage devices, controls and display.
central maintenance system
	central maintenance system that portion of the system which interfaces with other airplane systems, flight line mechanics, and radio communications. includes computers, storage devices, control and display devices.
central maintenance system wiring  
	wiring specific to the central maintenance system.
central warning related event  
	an event involving the panels and associated circuitry which warn of potential problems in two or more independent or related systems. warnings can be either audible or visual. typical parts are annunciator panel, relay, lamp, pc board, diode and throttle micro switch.
central warning systems
	those systems and components which give audible or visual warning of conditions in unrelated systems. includes items such as master warning or flight warning systems, central instrument warning, or caution and warning systems, tone generators, annunciators, etc.
central warning systems  
	central warning systems: the panels and associated circuitry which warn of potential problems in two or more independent or related systems. warnings can be either audible or visual. typical parts are annunciator panel, relay, lamp, pc board, diode and throttle microswitch.
charts  
	miscellaneous charts not applicable to any particular system, such as spare wire charts, junction box charts, disconnect plug charts, conduit and wire routing charts, rigid tube charts, flexible hose charts and control cables
cms / aircraft general
	central maintenance system interfaces with general aircraft systems and identification of maintenance functions related to aircraft general.
cms / airframe systems
	central maintenance system interfaces with airframe systems, and identification of maintenance functions related to airframe systems.
cms / power plant
	central maintenance system interfaces with power plant, and identification of maintenance functions related to power plant. note: subsystem/section code is selected to match applicable system interface. for example, 45 -21-xx would identify all air conditioning monitoring and testing provided by the central maintenance system, and would provide directions for using the central maintenance system to execute those maintenance functions. detailed testing not capable of coverage in chapter 45 would be appropriately cross referenced and would be provided in chapter 21. similarly, 45 -32-xx would identify landing gear monitoring and testing provided by the central maintenance system. 45 -45 -xx would identify the central maintenance system itself.
cms / propellers
	central maintenance system interfaces with propeller, and identification of maintenance functions related to propellers.
cms / structures
	central maintenance system interfaces with structures, and identification of maintenance functions related to structures.
collector - nozzle
	that portion of the system which collects the exhaust gases from the cylinders or turbines and conducts them overboard. includes items such as collector rings, exhaust and thrust augmentor ducts, variable nozzles, actuators, plumbing, linkages, wiring, position indicators, warning systems, etc. does not include power recovery turbines, turbo-superchargers, etc., nor noise suppressors or thrust reversers where they are not an integral part of the nozzle system.
communication network  
	the data communication network used for operational communication between systems. this network may also be used for communication within systems and for data loading. this sub-chapter describes all components of the network and their installation in the aircraft.
communication systems related event  
	an event involving the units and components furnishing a means of communicating from one part of the aircraft to another and between the aircraft or ground stations, includes voice, data, continuous wave communicating components, passenger announcement systems, intercom, in-flight telephones, and tape reproducers/record player.
communications system  
	communications system: the units and components furnishing a means of communicating from one part of the aircraft to another and between the aircraft and ground stations, includes voice, data, continuous wave communicating components and passenger announcement systems, intercom, in-flight telephones, tape reproducers and record player. factors relating to the also for reports of units or parts common to more than one communication system.
communications system wiring  
	wiring specific to the communications systems
compression
	that portion of the system and its controls which supplies compressed air. includes items such as controls and indicating systems related to the compressors, wiring, etc. does not include the pressure control and indicating system for the cabin pressurization.
compressor bleed control  
	compressor bleed control: the system, except the valve and governor, which controls the flow of air through turbine engines. includes the operation of variable stator blades, linkage to the various valves and sense lines. typical parts are sense line, stator vane, fitting, cable, sense line filter and speed sense valve.
compressor bleed governor  
	compressor bleed governor: the unit controlling relative position of the compressor bleed valve in turbine engines for air flow control.
compressor bleed valve  
	compressor bleed valve: the component which releases air from turbine engine compressor sections for air flow control. typical parts are bleed valve, actuator and check valve.
compressor control
	that portion of the system which is used to control the flow of air through the engine. includes items such as governors, valves, actuators, linkages, etc. also includes the operation of variable stator blades, but not the maintenance and overhaul, which shall be covered under 72-30.
control column section  
	control column section: the component and associated parts mounted onto the control which transmit pilot input from the cockpit to connecting cables and pushrods, to actuate the ailerons, elevators, stabilator, ruddervator and similar control surfaces. includes control sticks in aircraft not equipped with control wheels. typical parts are bearing, socket, guide, bushing, pulley bracket, sprocket, chain and stops.
control-surface balancing
	procedures for adjusting the mass balance of control surfaces after repair. where applicable, individual repairs will contain their own balancing instructions.
control-surface balancing  
	procedures for adjusting the mass balance of control surfaces after repair. where applicable, individual repairs will contain their own balancing instructions.
controlling
	that portion of the system which controls the pitch of the propeller blades. includes items such as governor synchronizers, switches, wiring, cables, levers, etc. does not include any parts which rotate with the propeller assembly. also includes all those units and components provided for the propulsor vector drive system. includes flight deck control, drive motors, gearboxes, drive shafts, synchronizing shafts, etc.
controlling - governing
	the main fuel control which meters fuel to the engine and the thrust augmentor. includes items such as hydro-mechanical or electronic fuel control, levers, actuators, cables, pulleys, linkages, sensors, valves, etc. which are components of the fuel control units.
controls and indicating
	part of the system intended for controlling folding/spreading sequences and for indicating the system operation. includes the control units, caption lights, indicators, wiring, etc.
coolant servicing  
	coolant servicing: servicing the aircraft with any type of engine coolant used in aircraft.
cooling
	that portion of the system and its controls which supply cooled air. includes items such as the cooling unit, indicating systems related to the cooler operation, wiring, etc. does not include temperature control and indicating systems.
cooling fan system  
	cooling fan system: the component which provides a cooling air flow to the rotorcraft piston engine cylinders and oil coolers. typical parts are fan, shroud, blade, impeller, duct, drive belt and stator.
core system  
	contains information about the main computing devices of the system.
cowl flap system  
	cowl flap system: the moveable flaps mounted in the engine cowling for increasing cooling air flow. also includes the component which electrically or hydraulically actuates the cowl flaps. typical parts are actuator, piston, seal and hinge brackets.
cowling
	those removable coverings which extend over and around the power plant assembly. includes the functioning and maintenance aspects of items such as accessory section cowls, cowl flaps, cowling supports, and attach and locking mechanisms, etc. does not include the structure integral with the airframe which shall be covered in the applicable structures chapter.
cranking
	that portion of the system which is used to perform the cranking portion of the starting operation. includes items such as plumbing, valves, wiring, starters, switches, relays, etc.
crew
	that portion of the system which furnishes oxygen to the crew.
crew oxygen system  
	crew oxygen system: the portion of the main system which furnishes oxygen to the crew. 
cylinder head temperature indicating system  
	cylinder head temperature indicating system: the instruments which indicate temperature measured at reciprocating engine cylinder heads. typical parts are indicator, case, dial, needle, thermocouple lead, sensor and connector.
data transmission and automatic calling
	that portion of the system which presents information derived from pulse coded transmissions. includes teleprinter, selcal, calsel, acars, etc.
data transmission automatic call  
	data transmission automatic call: that portion of the system which presents information derived from pulse coded transmissions. includes teleprinter, selcal, calsel and acars.
dc electrical load distribution
	that portion of the system which provides for connection of dc power to using systems. includes items such as dc main and secondary busses, main system circuit breakers, power system devices, etc.
dc generation
	that portion of the systems used to generate, regulate, control and indicate dc electrical power. includes items such as generators/ alternators, transformers, rectifiers, batteries, control and regulating components, indicating systems, etc., all wiring to but not including main busses.
degraded performance  
	an event in which the aircraft fails to achieve its published performance.
dependent position determining
	that portion of the system which provides information to determine position and is mainly dependent on ground installations or orbital satellites. includes items such as dme, transponders, radio compass, loran, vor, adf, omega, global positioning, etc.
dependent position determining systems  
	dependent position determining systems: the system which provides information to determine position and is dependent on ground installations or orbital satellites. 
detection
	that portion of the system which is used to detect and indicate the formation of ice.
detection
	that portion of the system which is used to sense and indicate the presence of overheat, smoke, or fire.
dimensions and areas  
	those charts, diagrams, and text which show the area, dimensions, stations, access doors/zoning and physical locations, of the major structural members of the aircraft. includes an explanation of the system of zoning and measurement used.
direct current distribution system  
	direct current distribution system: the electrical system which provides for connection of direct current to using systems. does not include using system. typical parts are main and secondary system busses, circuit breaker, bus tie breaker, limiter, jumper and load motor switch.
direct current generating system  
	direct current generating system: the system parts and circuitry other than the generator/alternator and direct current generation system regulator used to generate a direct current; or from an alternator, the output of which is rectified to direct current. typical parts are relay, switch, connector, terminal, sensor and reverse current relay. such systems are more prevalent on light single and twin engine aircraft.
direct current generator-alternator  
	direct current generator-alternator: the engine driven component generating a direct current or a rectified alternating current for aircraft with direct current electrical systems. does not include mounting brackets, drive belts and pulleys external to the unit. typical parts are bearing, housing, coupling, fan, capacitor, drive, brush, seal, clutch, armature and bell, shaft, field winding, case bolt and ground stud.
direct current indicating system  
	direct current indicating system: the system which indicates voltage, current flow and system faults in the direct current power system.
direct current rectifier-converter  
	direct current rectifier-converter: the component which converts alternating current to direct current for the using system(s).
direct current voltage regulator  
	direct current voltage regulator: the component that regulates direct current voltage supplied from a generator or alternator.
directional gyro and indicating system  
	directional gyro and indicating system: the unit operating by gyroscopic principle and driven by airflow or an electric motor, which provides heading (direction) references relative to a preset heading in degrees of the compass. also for the flux unit detector which senses the earth's magnetic field and uses this data to correct for gyro drift. typical parts are gyro, rotor and bearings.
distance measuring equipment/ultra high frequency tactical air navigation aid  
	distance measuring equipment/ultra high frequency tactical air navigation aid: the systems which measure time-to-station, ground speed and distance to a known transmitter location by transmitting and receiving electronic pulse signals e.g. distance measuring equipment; ultra high frequency tactical air navigational aid. typical parts are antenna, control unit, transceiver and coaxial cables.
distribution
	that portion of the system from the main quick disconnect to the engine, which distributes fuel to the engine burner section and the thrust augmentor. includes items such as plumbing, pumps, temperature regulator, valves, filters, manifold, nozzles, etc. does not include main of thrust augmentor control.
distribution
	that portion of the system that conducts high or low voltage electricity from the electrical power supply to the spark plugs or igniters. includes wiring between magneto and distributors in those systems where they are separate units. includes items such as ignition harness, high tension leads, coils used in "low tension" systems, spark plugs igniters, etc.
distribution
	that portion of the system used to induct and distribute air. includes equipment rack cooling systems and items such as blowers, scoops, ducting, inlets, check valves, wiring, etc. does not include valves which are part of pressurization and temperature control.
distribution
	that portion of the system which is used to conduct oil to and from the engine. includes items such as plumbing, valves, temperature regulator, control systems, etc.
distribution
	that portion of the system which is used to distribute high or low pressure air to using systems. includes items such as ducts, valves, actuators, heat exchangers, controls, etc. does not include the supply valves to the using systems.
distribution
	that portion of the system which is used to distribute negative pressure air to using systems.
distribution - drain valves
	that portion of the system which is used to distribute fuel from the filler connector to the storage system and from the storage system to and including the power plant fuel quick disconnect. includes items such as plumbing, pumps, valves, controls, etc.
distrubution
	that portion of the system which is used to conduct water or water mixtures from the tanks or cells to the engine. includes items such as plumbing, crossfeed systems, pumps, valves, controls, etc.
door
	doors used for entrance and exit of the passengers, flight crew and service personnel to and from the airplane. includes items such as transparent material, its frame, etc. does not include emergency exit windows.
door attachment fittings/hinges  (on fuselage)  
	the fittings on the fuselage used for the attachment of the doors.
door system wiring  
	wiring specific to the door systems.
door warning
	that portion of the system which is used to indicate whether the doors are closed and properly latched. includes items such as switches, lights, bells, horns, etc. does not include landing gear door warning which is covered in chapter 32.
door warning system  
	door warning system: the system which is used to indicate to the flight crew whether the exterior doors are closed and properly latched. does not include the landing gear position warning indications [code 11326000]. typical parts are switch, lamp, horn and relay.
door windows  
	door windows: the windows mounted in doors. does not include emergency exit windows [code 11522000].
doppler system  
	doppler system: the airborne radar system which utilizes the doppler effect to measure and display ground speed, drift angle and cross track error.
drag control actuator  
	drag control actuator: the components that actuate spoiler and speed brake surfaces on the wing for speed and lift reducing purposes. typical parts are seal, rod end bearing and rod end.
drag control system  
	drag control system: the system components, other than actuator, which control position and movement and indicates relative position of drag devices and variable aerodynamic surfaces on the wing including speed brake systems. does not include structure and hinges [code 11575500]. typical parts are valve, hose, push rod, line, cable and indicator.
drinkable/waste water system related event  
	an event involving the fixed units and components which store and deliver fresh water. also includes those fixed components which store and furnish a means of removal of water and waste.
drive shaft section
	that portion of the system which is used to conduct power from the engine to the gearbox. includes items such as drive shaft, adapters, seals, etc.
dump
	that portion of the system used to dump water ballast during flight. includes valves, remote/direct, manual/automatic controls, etc.
dump
	that portion of the system which is used to dump fuel overboard during flight. includes items such as plumbing, valves, controls, chutes, etc.
dumping and purging
	that portion of the system which is used to dump injection water and to purge the system. includes items such as plumbing, valves, controls, etc.
electric/electronic compartment doors  
	electric/electronic compartment doors: the exterior doors used primarily to gain access for servicing the electrical/electronic compartment. typical parts are hinges, structure and the latch mechanism.
electrical and electronic equipment racks
	
electrical and electronic junction boxes
	
electrical bonding
	topics concerning the electrical bonding of aircraft structure as well as electrical bonding of subsystems to aircraft structure.
electrical bonding  
	topics concerning the electrical bonding of aircraft structure as well as electrical bonding of subsystems to aircraft structure.
electrical connectors  
	any aircraft or engine electrical connector that is not associated a specific aircraft system. 
electrical harness
	those electrical cables, conduits, plugs, sockets, etc., which serve several power plant systems, but which are banded together to facilitate removal and installation of the power plant. does not include the wiring which is specifically covered under another system.
electrical power supply
	that portion of the system which generates electrical current for the purpose of igniting the fuel mixture in the combustion chambers and thrust augmentors. includes items such as magnetos, distributors, booster coils, exciters, transformers, storage capacitors, and compositors, etc.
electrical power system  
	electrical power system: the electrical units and components that generate, control and supply ac/dc electrical power for other systems through the secondary busses. includes electric power generating system parts and circuitry other than major components. typical parts are circuit breaker, relay, connector, resister, wire bundles and switches.
electrical power system related event  
	an event involving the electrical units and components that generate, control, and supply ac/dc electrical power for other systems through the secondary busses.
electrical power system wiring  
	wiring specific to the electrical power systems not reportable in the power distribution systems.
electronic shelf section  
	electronic shelf section: the shelves and attaching parts supporting the electronic equipment within the fuselage. does not include the equipment used for equipment cooling such as fans and blower motors.
elevator & tab control system  
	elevator control system: the system components and parts including actuator from the control column to the elevators that cause movement. includes control actuating mechanism for "ruddervators" installed on "v" tail aircraft. does not include hinges, structure and balance weights [code 11552000], or the auto-pilot servo [code 11221600]. typical parts are torque tube, cable, rod end, stops, actuator, feel computer, bracket and control valve.
elevator - elevon
	removable airfoil which is attached to the horizontal stabilizer or canard and used for pitch control. includes items such as spars, ribs, stringers, skins, access covers, tabs, balance devices, attach/ attached fittings, etc.
elevator and tab
	that portion of the systems which controls the position and movement of the elevator / elevon and tabs. includes items such as the control column, stickshaker units, automatic stall recovery devices, tab control wheels, cables, boosters, linkages, control surfaces, position indicators, stall warning systems, etc.
elevator feel system  
	elevator feel system: the system incorporated in the elevator control system which provides artificial resistance to the pilot's input to the elevators.
elevator structure  
	elevator structure: the aerofoil hinged to the horizontal stabilizer for longitudinal control. includes the "ruddervator" on v-tail aircraft and balance weights. does not include the stabilator structure [code 11551000] or the torque tubes [code 11273000].
elevator tab control system  
	elevator tab control system: the system components and parts from the cockpit trim control to the elevator, ruddervator or stabilator tab, which controls position and movement of the tab. includes the manual and electrical trim system parts. does not include the hinges or structure [code 11552000] or the balance weights [code 11552000] or the auto pilot servo [code 11221600]. typical parts are jackscrew, cable, actuator, sensor, motor, chain, sprocket and indicator.
elevator tab structure  
	elevator tab structure: the structure of elevator trim surfaces hinged to elevators and "ruddervators." includes hinge fittings and associated bearings and bolts. does not include actuating mechanism [code 11273100].
elevator trim system  
	elevator trim system: the system components and parts from the cockpit trim control to the elevator, ruddervator or stabilator tab, which control position and movement of the trim tab. includes the manual and electrical trim system parts. does not include the hinges.
elevator/tab attachment fitting  
	elevator/tab attachment fitting: the fittings on the elevator or elevator tab which are used to support equipment within the structure.
elt: a generic term describing equipment which broadcast distinctive signals on designated frequencies and, depending on application, may be automatically activated by impact or be manually activated.  an elt may be any of the following:
emergency
	those items of equipment carried for use in emergency procedures. includes items such as evacuation equipment, life rafts, jackets, emergency locator transmitters, underwater locator devices, first aid kit, incubators, oxygen tents, medical stretchers, landing and signal flares, drag parachutes, evacuation signaling systems, etc. does not include fire extinguishers, oxygen equipment or masks.
emergency clothing  
	emergency clothing: the clothing stored permanently in the aircraft for use in an emergency.
emergency equipment  
	emergency equipment: the components, parts and systems carried for emergency use. does not include fire extinguishers, oxygen equipment and flashlight. flashlights [code 11335000]. includes escape slide girt bars.
emergency exit
	exit doors used to facilitate evacuation that are not normally used for exit. includes items such as structure, latching mechanisms, handles, insulation, lining, controls, attach / attached fittings, etc.
emergency exits  
	emergency exits: the emergency exit doors, windows and hatches. typical parts are pan, hinge, latch and hook.
emergency flotation system  
	emergency flotation system: the helicopter inflatable floats and attaching parts which permit emergency landings on water. typical parts are float valve, hose, bracket and cylinder.
emergency lighting
	the separate and independent sub-system used to provide illumination in case of primary electrical power failure. includes items such as inertia flashlights, lanterns, etc.
emergency lighting  
	emergency lighting: the cabin, flight compartment and exterior emergency lighting systems, which furnish illumination in event of electrical power failure. includes items such as inertia flashlights and lanterns.
emergency locator beacon  
	" emergency locator beacon: the components transmitting an electronic signal on an emergency frequency to assist in locating an aircraft which has been involved in an accident. typical parts are impact switch, antenna and battery pack.
emergency shutdown
	that portion of the system which furnishes a means of controlling the flow of fluids to and from the engine during emergency procedures. includes items such as levers, cables, pulleys, linkages, switches, wiring, etc. does not include the units themselves.
empennage structure  
	empennage structure: the horizontal and vertical stabilizers include the structure of the elevator and rudder.
engine
	for definitions see chapter 72.
engine / gearbox couplings
	drive shaft(s) between engine(s) and main gear box(es) and, if applicable, clutch and free wheel unit(s).
engine air baffle section  
	engine air baffle section: the baffles which direct cooling air flow to the engine cylinders and accessories. does not include cylinder baffles certificated with the engine [code 11853000]. typical parts are baffle, shield, bracket, shroud and cooling duct.
engine air intake system  
	engine air intake system: the portion of the powerplant system which directs airflow to the engine. does not include integral structure with the airframe. typical parts are carburetor air heat doors, alternate air doors, linkages, controls, filter element, ducts, hose, air box, latch, seals, nose ring cowls, scoops, compressor fan cowls, buried engine ducts, vortex generators, actuators, control handles, cables, wiring, plumbing, doors, warning systems and position indicators.
engine air intakes
	that portion of the power plant system which directs and may or may not vary the mass air flow to the engine. includes items such as nose ring cowls, scoops, compressor fan cowls, buried engine ducts, vortex generators, actuators, control handles, cables, wiring, plumbing, linkages, doors, warning systems, position indicators, etc. does not include integral structure with the airframe, which shall be included in the applicable structures chapter.
engine air system related event  
	an event involving the turbine engine compressor bleed air systems used to control the flow of air through the engine, cooling air systems, and heated air for engine anti-icing.
engine anti-icing
	that portion of the system which is used to eliminate and prevent the formation of ice by bleed air in al parts of the engine, excluding power plant cowling which is covered by chapter 30. includes items such as valves, plumbing, wiring, regulators, etc. electrical anti-icing is covered in chapter 30.
engine anti-icing system  
	engine anti-icing system: the engine system components and parts used to eliminate and prevent the formation of ice. includes the control valve and associated actuator, switch and circuitry which controls the flow of turbine engine compressor bleed air to the engine anti-icing system. does not include anti-icing pertaining to the power plant cowling [code 11302000]. typical parts are control valve, actuator, motor, switch, relay, circuit breaker, hose, manifold, coupling, fuel heat duct and fuel heat valve.
engine attachment fittings  
	the fittings and brackets which are used for the support of equipment in and about the powerplant.
engine bleed air system  
	engine bleed air system: the turbine engine compressor bleed air systems used to control the flow of air through the engine, cooling air systems and heated air for engine anti-icing. 
engine bleed air system wiring  
	wiring specific to the engine bleed air system.
engine brake mean effective pressure/torque indicating system  
	engine brake mean effective pressure/torque indicating system: the system that senses and measures brake mean effective pressure [bmep] or engine torque in turbo-prop and piston engines. does not include internal parts which are type certificated with the engine. typical parts are indicator, line, sensor, transmitter and pressure switch.
engine control system wiring  
	wiring specific to the engine control system
engine controls
	for definitions see chapter 76.
engine controls  
	engine controls: the controls which govern operation of the engine. includes units and components which are interconnected for emergency shutdown. for turbo-prop engines, includes linkages and controls to the coordinator or equivalent to the propeller governor, fuel control unit or other units being controlled. for reciprocating engines, includes controls for blowers.
engine controls related event  
	an event involving the controls which govern the operation of the engine. includes units and components which are interconnected for emergency shutdown. for turboprop engines, includes linkages and controls to the co-ordinator or equivalent to the propeller governor, fuel control unit or other units being controlled. for reciprocating engines, includes controls for blowers.
engine cooling
	that portion of the system which is used to ventilate the engine and accessories. includes items such as valves, plumbing, wiring, jet pumps, vortex spoilers, etc.
engine cooling system  
	engine cooling system: the portion of the engine compressor bleed air system which is used to ventilate engine compartments and accessories. does not include the engine bleed control valve [code 11753200]. typical parts are jet pumps, vortex generators, valve, actuator and associated parts and circuitry used to control bleed air to engine accessory cooling systems.
engine cowling system  
	engine cowling system: the enclosure which houses engines for drag reducing and cooling. includes attachment, structure and access doors. does not include engine cylinder baffles of fire seals. typical parts are latch, fastener, lock pin, hook, skin, nose cap, stud, access door, hinge, hinge pin, rivet, bracket and stiffener.
engine cranking  
	engine cranking: the portion of the system which is used to perform the cranking functions of the starting operation. typical parts are plumbing, valve, wiring switch and relay.
engine drains
	those components and manifold assemblies which are used to drain off excess fluids from the power plant and its accessories. includes drainlines, manifolds, tanks, flame arrestors, vents, and their supporting brackets, etc. also includes components that are an integral part of, or fitted to the power plant cowling.
engine drains  
	engine drains: the components and manifold assemblies which are used to drain off excess fluids from the power plant and its accessories. includes drain lines, manifolds, flame arrestors and supporting brackets. also includes components that are an integral part of, or fitted to the power plant cowling.
engine electrical harness  
	engine electrical harness: the electrical cables, conduits, plugs and sockets, which serve several power plant systems, but which are banded together to facilitate removal and installation of the power plant. does not include the wiring which is specifically covered under another system.
engine emergency shutdown system  
	engine emergency shutdown system: the system which provides for rapid, complete shut-off of combustible fluids to the engine compartments during emergency procedures. typical parts are cable, actuator, switch and lever.
engine exhaust collector/tailpipe/nozzle  
	engine exhaust collector/tailpipe/nozzle: the portion of the system which collects the exhaust gases from the cylinders, turbines, or turbochargers and conducts them overboard. includes variable vanes or nacelle tailpipes used on turboprop powered aircraft and turbo-shaft powered rotorcraft. typical parts are tailpipe, cone, nozzle, clamp eyebolt, duct and ejector.
engine exhaust gas temperature/turbine inlet temperature indicating system  
	" engine exhaust gas temperature/turbine inlet temperature indicating system: the exhaust gas temperature or turbine inlet temperature, temperature sensing and indicating. includes the egt indicators for both reciprocating and turbine engines and the tit indicators for turbine engines. typical parts are wiring, turbine outlet temperature (tot) indicator, egt indicator, probe, harness, terminal, connector, indicator, sensor, transducer and transmitter.
engine exhaust system  
	engine exhaust system: the units and components which direct the engine exhaust gases overboard. 
engine exhaust system indication system  
	engine exhaust system indication
engine exhaust system related event  
	an event involving engine exhaust system defects.
engine exhaust system wiring  
	wiring specific to the engine exhaust system
engine exhaust thrust reverser  
	engine exhaust thrust reverser: the airframe furnished system and components mounted at turbo-jet engine exhaust tailpipes to direct engine thrust forward for deceleration. does not include the engine tailpipe. includes items such as clamshells, linkages, levers, actuators, plumbing, wiring, indicators and warning systems.
engine fan  
	the turbine engine fan.
engine fire seals  
	engine fire seals: the fire-resistant partitions and seals mounted on or about the powerplant to isolate areas subject to fire. typical parts are shroud and bracket. does not include those fire-walls on the nacelle or pylon.
engine fuel and control
	for definitions see chapter 73.
engine fuel and control systems  
	engine fuel and control systems: the turbine engine and reciprocating engine fuel systems. 
engine fuel indicating system  
	engine fuel indicating system: the fuel temperature, flow rate or pressure indicating and warning systems other than the indicators, sensors and transmitters. typical parts are line, hose, lamp, bulb, wiring harness and circuit breaker.
engine fuel pump  
	engine fuel pump: the powerplant engine fuel pumps: typical parts are housing, spring, rocker, pump, diaphragm, shaft, seal, relief valve, regulator and coupling.
engine fuel system  
	engine fuel system: the components and parts of the engine fuel system from the main quick disconnect fitting or airframe fuel system strainer to the fuel control unit. does not include the controlling or metering aspects [code 11732200], or the primer systems [code 11282000] on reciprocating engines or the engine fuel pumps, fuel heater, cooler, divider or injector nozzle (turbine and piston engines). typical parts are supply lines, hoses, fuel, filters on turbine engines, shutoff and solenoid valves.
engine fuel system and control related event  
	an event involving turbine or reciprocating engine fuel and control systems of the engine.
engine fuel system wiring  
	wiring specific to the engine fuel system
engine ignition analyzer  
	engine ignition analyzer: the unit which interprets and indicates by oscilloscope the condition of ignition systems on reciprocating engines.
engine ignition analyzer system  
	engine ignition analyzer system
engine ignition system related event  
	an event involving the aircraft's engine ignition system.
engine indicating system  
	engine indicating system: the engine indicators, transmitters and analyzers.
engine indicating system related event  
	an event involving engine indicating system discrepancies.
engine indicating system wiring  
	wiring specific to the engine indication system.
engine integrated instrument system  
	engine integrated instrument system: the portion of the system which is an integrated concept receives engine operating parameters and transmits this information to a central processor for flight crew presentation. typical parts are display units, transmitters, receivers and computers.
engine manifold pressure indicating system  
	" engine manifold pressure indicating system: the reciprocating engine manifold pressure indicating system including the indicator and sensor. typical parts are lines, hoses and fittings.
engine mount  
	engine mount: the structural framework which supports the engine on the nacelle, firewall or pylon. typical parts are mount, bracket, fitting, shock mount, bolt, isolator and hanger.
engine noise suppressor  
	engine noise suppressor: the clover leaf shaped unit mounted on turbo-jet engine exhaust tailpipes for sound suppression and components used on reciprocating engines to reduce engine exhaust noise. does not include the shroud over the muffler used to collect heated fresh air for cabin and carburetor heat [code 11214000]. typical parts are baffle, cone, and flame tube.
engine oil cooler  
	engine oil cooler: the component and associated parts that cool engine lubricating oil. includes brackets, outlet doors, scoops, ducts and louvres, but excludes the temperature regulator. typical parts are cooler, duct, scoop, door and door actuator.
engine oil distribution (airframe)  
	" engine oil distribution (airframe): the external oil system which distributes engine lubricating oil from the storage tanks to and from the engine. does not include externally mounted units such as oil coolers, oil filters and shut-off valves. typical parts are line, hose, coupling, fitting and clamps.
engine oil indicating system  
	engine oil indicating system: the portion of the system which is used to indicate the quantity, temperature and pressure of the engine oil. 
engine oil pressure indication  
	engine oil pressure indication: the instrument or warning lamp which indicates, senses or transmits the pressure of engine lubricating oil available at the engine or when the pressure is improper for the conditions. typical parts are transducer, pressure switch, transmitter, indicator, case, dial, needle and lamp.
engine oil quantity indicator  
	engine oil quantity indicator: the instrument or warning lamp which senses or indicates the quantity of oil in supply tanks or warns of an insufficient quantity. typical parts are transmitter, indicator, case, lamp.
engine oil shut-off valve  
	engine oil shut-off valve: the component and associated controls which stop the flow of lubricating oil to the engine for emergency purposes.
engine oil storage (airframe)  
	" engine oil storage (airframe): the engine oil storage tank furnished by the airframe manufacturer. includes attached parts such as filler caps and mount brackets, but excludes engine manufacturer furnished tanks, quantity indication systems and distribution lines. typical parts are tank, cap, seal, bracket and drain valve.
engine oil system (airframe)  
	" engine oil system (airframe): the system units external to the engine which store and deliver engine lubricating oil to and from both turbine and reciprocating engines. 
engine oil system related event  
	an event involving the system units external to the engine which store and deliver engine lubricating oil to and from either turbine or reciprocating engines.
engine oil system wiring  
	wiring specific to the engine oil system
engine oil temperature indicator  
	engine oil temperature indicator: the instrument which senses and indicates temperature of engine oil. typical parts are sensor, temperature bulb, case, indicator, needle and dial.
engine oil temperature regulator  
	engine oil temperature regulator: the unit which is mounted on the airframe oil cooler or the engine for controlling engine lubricating oil temperature. typical parts are thermostat, thermal valve and regulator.
engine power control  
	engine power control: the portion of the system which furnishes a means of controlling the main fuel control or coordinator. includes controls to the propeller regulator on turboprop engines and items such as linkages, cables, levers, pulleys, switches and wiring. does not include the units themselves.
engine power indicating system  
	engine power indicating system: the power indicating systems which directly or indirectly indicates power or thrust e.g. brake mean effective pressure, engine pressure ratio and rpm.
engine pressure ratio (epr) indicating system  
	engine pressure ratio indicating system: the system which senses, measures and indicates the engine pressure ratio of a turbine engine. the system measures the difference between the compressor inlet pressure and the turbine discharge pressure. typical parts are sensor, transducer, transmitter and probe.
engine rpm indicating system  
	engine rpm indicating system: the system including the indicator and sensor which indicates engine speed in revolutions per minute. typical parts are cable, connector, tachometer, tachometer generator and n1 indicator.
engine start valves/controls  
	the valves and controls used for starting engines.
engine starter  
	engine starter: the component used for starting the engines. includes parts which are separated from the engine during starter removals, but does not include parts within the engine. does not include the starter-generator [code 11243500]. typical parts are brush, bearing, shaft, clutch, adaptor, back plate, housing, winding and terminal post.
engine starting system  
	engine starting system: the units, components and associated systems used for starting the engine. includes electrical, inertia, air or other starter systems. does not include ignition systems.
engine starting system related event  
	an event involving the units, components and associated systems used for starting the engine. includes electrical, inertia air or other starter systems.
engine starting system wiring  
	wiring specific to the engine starting system
engine synchronizing  
	the components providing for engine synchronization in multi-engine aircraft.
engine temperature indicating system  
	engine temperature indicating system: the system components and parts which indicate engine temperatures. 
engine turbine/turbo prop ducted fan/unducted fan  
	turbine/turboprop engine: the units and components which are used to induce and convert fuel-air mixture into power and to transmit power to the propeller shaft, if any, and accessory drives. includes bird strikes to engine cowlings.
engine vibration analyzer  
	the engine vibration analyzer system indicating to the flight crew unusual engine vibration conditions. typical parts are connector, harness, indicator, monitor, sensor and amplifier.
engine water injection system related event  
	an event involving the system components and parts which inject a water mixture into induction system of turbine and reciprocating engines. typical parts are pump, switch, tank and valve.
engine water/methanol injection  
	engine water/methanol injection
engine/transmission coupling  
	engine/transmission coupling: the drive shaft between the engine and the main gearbox including the clutch and freewheel units (if applicable) and tilt rotor interconnect system. typical parts are clutch, shaft, coupling, bearing, boot, seal, sync shaft, pulley, pulley bracket and belt.
entrance stairs
	stairs which operate in conjunction with but are not an integral part of entrance doors. stairs whose primary structure is a door shall be covered under the appropriate topic. includes items such as structure, actuating mechanisms and controls, handrails, attach/attached fittings, etc.
entrance stairs  
	entrance stairs: the cabin entrance stairs which operate in conjunction with, but are not an integral part of, entrance doors. typical parts are structure, actuator, controls and handrails, step, cable, bungee, latch hook, latch, bracket and bellcrank.
equipment attachment fittings (on fuselage)  
	the fittings on the fuselage used for the attachment of equipment.
equipment/furnishings wiring  
	wiring specific to the equipment/furnishing systems.
escape slide  
	escape slide: the inflatable component which enables rapid evacuation from an aircraft cabin to ground level during emergencies on the ground. typical parts are valves and the gas bottle.
exhaust
	for definitions see chapter 78.
exhaust turbine system (reciprocating engine only) related event  
	an event involving the exhaust turbine systems for reciprocating engines. includes power recovery turbine assemblies and turbo-supercharger units when external to the engine.
exhaust turbine system (reciprocating)  
	the exhaust turbine systems for reciprocating engines. includes power recovery turbine assemblies and turbo-supercharger units when external to the engine.
exhaust turbocharger  
	exhaust turbocharger: the airframe or engine manufacturer furnished exhaust driven turbocharger systems including the turbocharger unit, density controller and waste gate valve. does not include the tailpipe. typical parts are clamp, coupling, rod end, bracket, hose, scroll, bearing, impeller and shaft.
explosion suppression
	that portion of the system which is used to sense, indicate and extinguish a flame propagating into the fuel vent or scoop to prevent an explosion in the fuel system.
explosion suppression system  
	explosion suppression system: the system installed to extinguish a flame propagating into the fuel vent or scoop to prevent an explosion in the fuel system.
extension and retraction
	that portion of the system which is used to extend and retract the landing gear and open and close the landing gear doors. includes items such as actuating mechanisms, bogie trim, bungees, up and down latches, operating controls, valves and motors, cables, wiring, plumbing, etc.
exterior color schemes and markings
	this sub-system/section breakdown reserved for airline use.
exterior color schemes and markings  
	exterior color schemes and markings
exterior lighting
	the lighting sub-systems used to provide illumination outside of the aircraft. includes lights such as landing, navigation, position indicating, wing illumination, rotating, courtesy, taxi, etc.
exterior lighting  
	exterior lighting: the lighting systems for illumination outside the aircraft such as landing, taxi, position, wing illumination including the rotating beacon and strobe. typical parts are switch, lamp, power supply, lens, circuit breaker, flasher unit, relay, wheel-well lights, brackets and motors.
exterior placards and markings
	those placards and markings required for ground servicing instructions, inspections, cautions, warnings, etc.
exterior placards and markings  
	those placards, markings, self-illuminating signs, etc.   required for interior general and emergency information, instructions, cautions, warnings, etc.
external electrical power system connection  
	that portion of the system within the aircraft which connects external electrical power to the aircraft's electrical system. includes items such as receptacles, relays, switches, wiring, warning lights, etc.
external power
	that portion of the system within the aircraft which connects external electrical power to the aircraft's electrical system. includes items such as receptacles, relays, switches, wiring, warning lights, etc.
extinguishing
	that portion of those fixed or portable systems which is used to extinguish fire.
fasteners
	description of fastener types, materials, and sizes. procedures for fastener installation and removal including hole preparation. fastener strength values and substitution data.
fasteners  
	any aircraft or engine fastener that are not associated a specific aircraft system.   typical parts are generic an bolts, nuts, rivets. etc.
fasteners  
	description of fastener types, materials, and sizes. procedures for fastener installation and removal including hole preparation. fastener strength values and substitution data.
fire bottle, fixed  
	fire bottle, fixed: the fixed fire bottle and associated parts that store extinguishing agent under pressure. typical parts are bottle, cartridge and brackets.
fire bottle, portable  
	fire bottle, portable: the portable fire extinguishes mounted within the flight compartment and cabin.
fire detection system  
	fire detection system: the system used to sense and indicate the presence of fire in any of the protected areas of the aircraft. typical parts are detectors, sensors, wiring, relays, amplifiers and the test circuit.
fire extinguishing indication system  
	fire extinguishing indication system
fire extinguishing system  
	fire extinguishing system: the components and parts other than the fixed or portable bottles used to extinguish any fire in the aircraft. typical parts are valve, squib, control module, switch and tubing.
fire protection system  
	fire protection system: the fixed and portable units and components which detect and indicate fire or smoke and store and distribute fire extinguishing agent to all protected areas of the aircraft.
fire protection system related event  
	an event involving the fixed and portable units and components which detect and indicate fire or smoke and store and distribute fire extinguishing agent to all protected areas of the aircraft.
fire protection system wiring  
	wiring specific to the fire protection system.
fire/smoke/overheat detection system  
	fire/smoke/overheat detection system: the system used to sense and indicate the presence of overheat or fire in any of the protected areas.
fireseals and shrouds
	those fire-resistant partitions and seals mounted on or about the power package for the purpose of isolating areas subject to fire. does not include those fire-walls which are included in chapter 54.
fixed inner doors  
	fixed inner doors: the doors within the fuselage in fixed partitions but not including doors in movable partitions. typical parts are structure, hinges, latches and lining.
fixed interior
	interior doors inside the fuselage installed in fixed partitions. includes items such as structure, latching mechanisms, handles, lining, attach/attached fittings, etc. does not include doors installed in movable partitions which are covered in chapter 25.
flaps
	that portion of the systems which controls the position and movement of the trailing edge flaps. includes items such as control handles, cables, actuators, warning systems, linkages, control surfaces, position indicators, etc.
flight compartment
	compartment above the floor and between the forward passenger partition and the forward pressure dome. includes items such as the transparent material and its frame of sliding and fixed windows and windshields, handles, latching mechanisms, etc. does not include door or inspection/observation windows.
flight compartment
	the compartment above the floor and between the forward passenger partition and the forward pressure dome. includes items such as flight crew seats, tables, pilot check lists and food containers, wardrobes, curtains, manuals, electronic equipment rack, spare bulbs, fuses, etc. does not include cargo compartments.
flight compartment and annunciator panel
	the lighting sub-systems in the compartment above the floor and between the forward passenger partition and the forward pressure dome. does not include cargo compartment. includes direct and indirect illumination of work areas, panels, and instruments. includes master warning light and warning light dimming systems, where not integrated with a central audio or visual system under 31-50.
flight compartment equipment  
	flight compartment equipment: the removable equipment and furnishings within the cockpit or crew station of a general nature. typical parts are seats, shoulder harnesses, take-up harness reels, seat belts, sun visors, panels, map case, attach brackets and hardware.
flight compartment lighting  
	flight compartment lighting: the lighting systems and equipment including panel illumination other than inside individual instruments, master warning light systems such as annunciator panels and associated dimming systems located in the flight compartment only. typical parts are bulb, socket, switch, lamp, lens, relay, rheostat, resistor and ballast.
flight compartment related event  
	an event involving the removable equipment and furnishings within the cockpit or crew station of a general nature e.g. seats, shoulder harnesses, take-up harness reels, seat belts, sun visors, panels, map case, attachment brackets and hardware.
flight compartment windows/windshields  
	flight compartment windows/windshields: any cockpit windows, cockpit overhead canopies, observation windows and windshield panels in the flight compartment. includes attachment and sliding feature of sliding windows. for cockpit windows including the breakage of electrically heated windshield panels regardless of cause. does not include the heating aspects associated circuitry of heated windshields, [code 11304000]. typical parts are windshield, sliding window, seal, frame, panel, latch, hinge and chin bubbles.
flight control system  
	flight control system: the units and components furnishing a means of manually controlling the flight attitude characteristics of the aircraft. also includes the functioning and maintenance aspects of the flaps, spoilers and other control surfaces, but does not include the structure. typical parts are hydraulic boost system, controls and mounting brackets. includes flight control problems of a general nature involving two or more systems. does not include rotorcraft flight controls. typical parts are hydraulic boost system, controls and mounting brackets.
flight control system wiring  
	wiring specific to the flight control systems.
flight controller  
	flight controller: the command unit of an autopilot system. the unit is manually operated to generate signals which cause the aircraft to climb, dive or perform coordinated turns.
flight crew documentation  
	" flight crew documentation: the documentation used by the flight crew for reference during the operation of the aircraft, includes maps, charts, manuals and checklists.
flight deck information systems
	that portion of the onboard information system that supports the flight deck systems, flight deck crew and flight operations.
flight deck information systems  
	flight deck information systems: the portion of the onboard information system that supports the flight deck systems, flight crew and flight operations.
flight environment data
	that portion of the system which senses environmental conditions and uses the data to influence navigation. includes such items as central air data computers, pitot/static systems, air temperature, rate -of-climb, airspeed, high speed warning, altitude, altitude reporting, altimeter correction system, air disturbance detection system, etc.
flight environment data system  
	flight environment data system: the system which senses environmental conditions and uses the data to influence navigation.
flight management computing
	that portion of the system which combines navigational data to compute or manage the aircraft's geographical position or theoretical flight path. includes items such as course computers, flight management computers, performance data computers, and associated control display units, warning annunciators, etc.
flight management computing system  
	flight management computing system: the system which combines navigational data to compute or manage the aircraft's geographical position or theoretical flight path. includes items such as course computers, flight management computers, performance data computers and associated control display units and warning annunciators.
flight management system (fms) related event  
	an event involving the system which combines navigational data to compute or manage the aircraft's geographical position or theoretical flight path. typical parts are course computers, flight management computers, performance data computers, associated control display units and warning annunciators.
flight recording  
	flight data recorder: the unit which continuously records critical flight, aircraft and powerplant system data, such as attitude, air speed, altitude and engine power, to be used in the investigation of an accident/incident or for maintenance. includes the system and parts which provide a source of power and inputs, from various sources critical to flight, to flight data recorder. typical parts are spool rod and magazine.
fluid service doors  
	fluid service doors: the exterior doors used primarily to gain access for servicing the fluid service areas but excluding compartment doors [code 11524300]. typical parts are hinges, structure and the latch mechanism.
folding - controls and indicating  
	part of the system intended for controlling folding/spreading sequences and for indicating the system operation.   includes the control units, caption lights, indicators, wiring, etc.
folding blades/pylon  
	folding blades/pylon: the whole of the system ensuring automatic or manual folding and spreading of the rotor blades and/or tail pylon.
for engine manufacturers this will include the flight cycle lives of major rotating components and other items designated critical.
frame/spar/rib (nacelles/pylon)  
	the main frame, spar or rib structure on the nacelles or pylons.
fuel control - carburetor  
	fuel control - carburetor: the component which meters fuel/air mixture for engine combustion, both reciprocating and turbine engines. includes turbine engines which utilize non-electronic fuel controls. typical parts are computer, amplifier, synchronization box and carburetor inlet temperature sensor.
fuel control - electronic  
	fuel control - electronic: the components which control metered fuel flow electronically under all probable temperature, altitude and barometric pressure conditions. typical parts are computer, amplifier, synchronizer box and carburetor inlet temperature sensor.
fuel control system  
	fuel control system: the powerplant fuel system components or parts other than the fuel control, amplifier, computer, carburetor and indication systems which control and deliver metered fuel/air to engine cylinders or turbine engine burner cans. typical parts are sense line, power and drain valve (p & d valve), drain valve and carburetor inlet temperature sensor.
fuel distribution system  
	fuel distribution system: the portion of the aircraft fuel system other than selector valves, transfer valves, electric motor driven pumps used to distribute fuel from the tank outlet to the powerplant quick disconnect or up to the strainer unit. includes the engine primer equipment, the switch that senses failure of a system pump and the switch that automatically activates the boost pump. typical parts are line, fitting, primer, nozzle, primer pump and actuating linkage for the fuel selector/shutoff valve.
fuel divider  
	fuel divider: the unit in metered fuel lines which directs fuel to individual cylinders or burner cans.
fuel dump system  
	" fuel dump system: the system and components which provide for the jettison of fuel during flight. typical parts are valve, switch and dump chutes.
fuel dumping: the intentional airborne release of usable fuel. this does not include the dropping of fuel tanks."
fuel filter/strainer  
	fuel filter/strainer: the component that filters unmetered fuel upstream of the engine fuel control/carburetor. does not include the engine fuel metered control system filters [code 11730000]. typical parts are screen, housing, bowl, gasket, plunger and stand pipe.
fuel flow indicating system  
	fuel flow indicating system: the instrument which indicates the flow rate of metered fuel to the engine. does not include the transmitter. typical parts are indicator, power supply, needle and dial.
fuel flow sensor  
	the unit and associated circuitry and parts which senses and transmits the rate of fuel flow to the cockpit indicator.  typical parts are transmitter, sensor, fitting, connector, transducer, etc.
fuel heater  
	fuel heater: the powerplant fuel unit which heats fuel flowing to the engine to prevent freezing of entrapped water. does not include connecting lines or the heat source.
fuel indicating system  
	fuel indicating system: the portion of the system which is used to indicate the quantity, temperature and pressure of the fuel. includes pressure warning systems for pumping systems within the tank. does not include engine fuel pressure reports [code 11733200] or flow indication system [code 11733100]. typical parts are circuit breaker, connector, pressure switch, indicator lights and dipstick.
fuel injection nozzle  
	fuel injection nozzle: the powerplant fuel unit which injects metered fuel into piston engine cylinders and burner cans in turbine engines.
fuel leak  
	fuel leak: fuel escaping from broken/ruptured  fuel lines, reservoirs etc
fuel oil cooler  
	fuel oil cooler: the powerplant fuel unit in which aircraft fuel flows to cool the turbine engine lubricating oil. does not include the connecting lines.
fuel press sensor  
	fuel press sensor: the units which sense and transmit to the cockpit indicator or indicator lamps, the pressure of fuel available at the engine fuel control/carburetor. includes pressure switch and circuitry for warning indication. typical parts are transducer and transmitter.
fuel pressure indicating system  
	fuel pressure indicating system: the instrument which indicates the pressure of fuel at the fuel control/carburetor as provided by the engine driven, or motor driven, pumps. includes the pressure warning indicating lamps. typical parts are indicator, bourdon tube, diaphragm, needle and case.
fuel pressure indicator  
	fuel pressure indicator: the tank unit which measures the pressure of fuel in that tank and indicates it on a gauge on the flight deck. typical parts are the pressure switch and indicator lights.
fuel pumps  
	fuel pumps
fuel quantity indicator  
	fuel quantity indicator: the indicator and low level warning system used to indicate the quantity of fuel in the tanks. typical parts are indicator, lamp and bulbs.
fuel quantity sensor  
	fuel quantity sensor: the tank unit which measures and transmits a signal to the cockpit indicator. typical parts are transmitter, float switch, probe, sensor, totalizer, tank unit float and gaskets.
fuel selector/shutoff valve  
	fuel selector/shutoff valve: the component and associated controls and position indication units which provides for specific tank selection or shutting off of flow to the engine. typical parts are housing, rotor, handle, guard, seat, seal, selector valve, shutoff valve and springs.
fuel storage system  
	fuel storage system: the portion of the fuel system used for the storage of fuel. does not include defects in the wing primary structure of integral tanks. typical parts are removable metal tank, tip tank, header tank, bladder fuel cell, tank interconnect lines, vent line, vent valve, drain valve, filler cap, filler neck, check valve, vent tube, cap seal, filler adapter, outlet fitting, screen, fuelling panel, tank strap and sealant.
fuel system related event  
	an event involving the units and components storing and delivering fuel to the engine. includes the integral tank leak detection and sealing. does not include the structure of integral, tip fuel tanks, fuel cell backing boards, the fuel flow rate sensing, transmitting, or indicating systems.
fuel system wiring  
	wiring specific to the fuel system.
fuel temperature indicating  
	fuel temperature indicating: the system which measures the temperature of fuel in each tank and indicates that temperature on a gauge located on the flight deck.
fuel transfer valve  
	fuel transfer valve: the component and associated control linkage which provides for the transfer of fuel between tanks for crossfeeding to alternate engine fuel systems. typical parts are seal, housing, rotor, handle and transfer valves.
fuselage attachment fittings  
	fuselage attachment fittings: the fittings on the fuselage used for the attachment of doors, wings, stabilizers, landing gear, engine and rotor pylons and the support of equipment within the fuselage.
fuselage doors  
	fuselage doors: the removable units used for entrance or exit and for enclosing other structure contained within the fuselage. includes passenger and crew doors, cargo doors and emergency exits. includes electrical and hydraulic systems associated with door control as appropriate.
fuselage fairings  
	fuselage fairings: the fixed and removable aerodynamic fairings between the fuselage and wing/empennage/nacelle attachment points, tail cones and radomes. also includes the rings on rotorcraft tail cones. typical parts are tail, radome, fairing, stiffener, screw, fillet and skin.
fuselage fixed partitions  
	fuselage fixed partitions: the fixed partitions which are part of the fuselage structure.
fuselage floor panel  
	fuselage floor panel: the interior floor panels within the main fuselage auxiliary structure.
fuselage internal mounting structure  
	fuselage internal mounting structure: the internal mounting auxiliary structure which aids in the support of the fuselage structure.
fuselage internal stairs  
	fuselage internal stairs: the internal stairs which are part of the fuselage auxiliary structure.
fuselage main bulkheads  
	the main fuselage bulkheads and the associated attachment fittings.
fuselage main floor beam  
	the main fuselage floor beams and the associated attach fittings.
fuselage main frames  
	the main fuselage frames: the associated attachment fittings are covered in "fuselage miscellaneous structure".
fuselage main keel  
	the main fuselage keel beams and the associated attachment fittings.
fuselage main longeron/stringer  
	the main fuselage longerons/stringers and the associated attachment fittings.
fuselage main structure  
	fuselage main structure: the fuselage structure defects which affect two or more related parts. 
fuselage miscellaneous structure  
	the miscellaneous structures of the main fuselage that aid in the support of the primary structure. includes such items as brackets, channels, stiffeners and clips. does not include movable partitions.
fuselage plate/skin  
	fuselage plate/skin: the exterior covering of the fuselage including access covers and skin doublers.
fuselage structure (general)  
	fuselage structure (general): the structural units and associated components and members which make up the compartments for crew, passengers, equipment and cargo.
galley doors  
	galley doors: the exterior doors used primarily to gain access for servicing the aircraft galley. typical parts are hinges, structure and the latch mechanism.
gear box section
	the case which contains the gear trains and shafts. includes items such as gears, shafts, seals, oil pumps, coolers, etc.
gearbox(es)
	part of the system driving the rotor(s). includes the mechanical power take -off(s) and accessory drives but does not include the accessories themselves (alternators, hydraulic pumps, etc.). includes the g.b. lubricating system(s) and the rotor brake(s) if the latter form(s) part of the g.b.(s).
gearboxes
	intermediate gearbox. tail gearbox.
general
	
general
	airplane major structural breakdown diagram. primary and secondary structure diagram. principal area and dimensional data. restricted area diagram. zoning diagram. access door and panel identification. glossary.
general
	this topic shall include general information, limits and procedures. in the maintenance manual this section shall cover subjects such as engine changes, run-up, externally mounted spare power plants, etc. in the overhaul manual, this section shall cover subjects such as power plant build-up, teardown, etc.
generator drive
	mechanical devices that drive the generators at a desired rpm. includes items such as oil system, connecting devices, indicating and warning systems for the drive, etc.
glide slope system  
	glide slope system: the system which provides an instrument needle reference from an electronic signal radiated from a ground transmitter to enable the pilot to fly the proper glide path for landing under instrument meteorological conditions. typical parts are circuit breaker, switch, receiver, antenna and indicator.
global positioning system  
	global positioning system: the systems which are mainly dependent upon signals from ground transmitters or orbital satellites for their operations; systems such as vhf omni-directional radio range, automatic direction finding, and distance measuring equipment. typical parts are antenna, control unit, receiver, remote switches, connectors and coaxial cable.
ground proximity warning system related event  
	an event involving the system which detects and alerts flight crew to potential terrain hazards. includes the antenna which transmits and receives an electronic signal for the radio altimeter equipment used for terrain-to-aircraft distance. also includes the component which interprets a radio signal reflected back to a receiver to determine distance from the nearest terrain; and the component which process the warning computer input signals from various sources in order to determine if and when the crew should be alerted of a terrain hazard.
ground proximity warning system/terrain avoidance warning system  
	ground proximity warning system/terrain avoidance warning system: the system which detects and alerts flight crew to potential terrain hazards. includes the antenna which transmits and receives an electronic signal for the radio altimeter equipment used for terrain-to-aircraft distance. also includes the component which interprets a radio signal reflected back to a receiver to determine distance from the nearest terrain and the component which process the warning computer input signals from various sources in order to determine if and when the crew should be alerted to a terrain hazard.
gust lock and damper
	that portion of the systems which protects the control surfaces from movement by wind while the aircraft is on the ground. does not include locking the control by means of flight control boost system.
gust lock and damper system  
	gust lock and damper system: the system and components protecting flight control surfaces from movement and damage by wind gusts while the aircraft is on the ground. includes cockpit controlled surface locks common in light aircraft and independent hydraulic gust damper units mounted at each flight control surface on large jet powered aircraft. does not include the damping feature of the flight control power boost systems. typical parts are damper, cylinder, seal, rod end and lock pin cable.
hand pump, main system  
	and pump, main system: any manually actuated pump for emergency system pressure. typical parts are handle, lever and seals.
head up display system  
	head up display system: the flight instrument system that allows the pilot of an aircraft to watch the flight instruments while looking ahead of the aircraft. includes the display screen which allows information to be visually presented to the pilot while looking through the windscreen or at the control panel.
heating
	that portion of the system and its controls which supply heated air. includes items such as heater panels and other units, fuel system and control, ignition, indicating systems related to heater operation, wiring, etc. does not include temperature control and indicating systems.
heating system  
	heating system: the units and systems supplying heated air to the cockpit or cabin. includes the heat source (heater), controlling aspects and temperature sensors/indicators. typical parts are fuel pump, filter, plumbing, circuitry, relay, heat exchanger and igniter.
helicopter noise analysis  
	helicopter noise analysis: monitoring, measuring, diagnosing and locating sources of noise in dynamic and structural components.
helicopter vibration analysis  
	helicopter vibration analysis: monitoring, measuring, diagnosing and locating sources of noise and vibration in a helicopter in order to identify imbalance, damage or misalignment in helicopter components.
helicopter vibration analysis  
	helicopter vibration analysis: monitoring, measuring, diagnosing and locating sources of vibration in dynamic and structural components of a helicopter.
helicopter vibration system wiring  
	wiring used on equipment necessary to monitor, measure, diagnose and locate sources of noise in dynamic and structural components.
high frequency communication system  
	hf communication system: the system parts and circuitry including the receiver, transmitter and antenna used exclusively in the high frequency communications.
high speed warning system  
	high speed warning system: the system components, including the computer, which sense, transmit and provide warning when operating air speed limits are exceeded. typical parts are transducer, stall warning detector, switch, vane, horn, lamp, warning unit computer and module.
horizontal stabilizer / stabilator
	that portion of the system which controls the position and movement of the horizontal stabilizer/canard. includes items such as control handle, cables, jackscrews, motors, warning systems, linkages, control surfaces, position indicators, etc.
horizontal stabilizer / stabilator or canard
	the horizontal airfoil of the tail or nose section to which the elevator is attached. includes items such as spars, ribs, stringers, skins, access covers, tips, attach / attached fittings, etc.
horizontal stabilizer actuator  
	horizontal stabilizer actuator: the component which actuates the horizontal stabilizer to finite angles of incidence to provide pitch trim. includes both manual and power assist types. typical parts are actuator, actuator bracket, clutch, motor and seals.
horizontal stabilizer attachment fitting  
	horizontal stabilizer attachment fitting: the fittings on the horizontal stabilizer which are used to support equipment within the structure.
horizontal stabilizer control system  
	horizontal stabilizer control system: the system components and parts from the cockpit control to the stabilizer, except the actuator which controls position of the horizontal stabilizer for pitch trim (usually found on high performance turbine powered aircraft). also for stabilator control systems on aircraft utilizing a single horizontal tail surface for both the stabilizer and elevator. typical parts are cable, bellcrank, pulley, control valve and indicator.
horizontal stabilizer structure  
	horizontal stabilizer structure: the structural aspects of horizontal stabilizer and stabilators or canard. includes fuselage and boom-to-surface attachment fittings. does not include any actuating mechanism [code 11274200].
horizontal stabilizer tab structure  
	horizontal stabilizer tab structure: the structure and attachment of the tab surface mounted on movable stabilizers and stabilators. includes hinge brackets and bearings/bushings. does not include the actuating mechanism [code 11274000]. typical parts are hinge, skin, rib and spar.
hoses and tubes  
	any aircraft or engine hose or that are not associated a specific aircraft system. 
hydraulic accumulator, auxiliary  
	hydraulic accumulator, auxiliary: the component which absorbs pressure surges to maintain a constant pressure in the auxiliary hydraulic system. typical parts are accumulator, seal, end cap and air valves.
hydraulic auxiliary system  
	hydraulic auxiliary system: the portion of the main hydraulic system which is classified as auxiliary, emergency or standby and which is used to supplement or take the place of the main hydraulic fluid to the using system. does not include the supply valves to the using systems. typical parts are tank, accumulator, valve, pump, lever, cables, switch, plumbing, wiring, external connectors and miscellaneous auxiliary system parts.
hydraulic auxiliary system ram air turbine  
	hydraulic auxiliary system ram air turbine: the emergency air driven hydraulic pump which is lowered into the air stream in an emergency to generate pressure in the aircraft's hydraulic system. 
hydraulic compartment doors  
	hydraulic compartment doors: the exterior doors used primarily to gain access for servicing the hydraulic compartment. typical parts are hinges, structure and the latch mechanism.
hydraulic filter, auxiliary  
	hydraulic filter, auxiliary: the component which filters sediment from the hydraulic fluid in the auxiliary system. typical parts are seal, gasket, housing, element and packings.
hydraulic hand pump, auxiliary  
	hydraulic hand pump, auxiliary: the manually actuated pump for emergency system pressure. typical parts are handle, lever and seals.
hydraulic main system filter  
	hydraulic main system filter: the component which filters sediment from the hydraulic fluid in the main system. typical parts are seal, gasket, housing, element and packing.
hydraulic power accumulator, main system   
	hydraulic power accumulator, main system: the component that absorbs pressure surges to maintain a constant pressure in the system. typical parts are accumulator, seal, end cap and air valve.
hydraulic power system  
	hydraulic power system: the units and components which furnish hydraulic fluid under pressure to a common point (manifold) for re-distribution to other defined systems.
hydraulic power system wiring  
	wiring specific to the hydraulic power system.
hydraulic pressure indicator  
	hydraulic pressure indicator: the instrument and associated low pressure warning system which registers system pressure. typical parts are indicator, warning lamp and bulb.
hydraulic pressure regulator - system  
	hydraulic pressure regulator - system: the unit which maintains a preset operating system pressure to the using systems. typical parts are regulator, seals and the case.
hydraulic pressure regulator, auxiliary  
	hydraulic pressure regulator, auxiliary: the unit which maintains a preset operating system pressure to the using auxiliary hydraulic system. typical parts are regulator, seal and case.
hydraulic pressure relief valve-main system  
	hydraulic pressure relief valve-main system: the unit which relieves main hydraulic system pressure to prevent it exceeding a preset pressure. typical parts are seal, spring, housing and relief valve.
hydraulic pressure relief, auxiliary  
	hydraulic pressure relief, auxiliary: the unit which prevents auxiliary system pressure from exceeding a maximum specified pressure. typical parts are seal, spring, housing and relief valves.
hydraulic pressure sensor  
	hydraulic pressure sensor: the components which sense system pressure and transmit a signal to the cockpit indicator or low pressure warning lamp. typical parts are transmitter, pressure switch and sensor.
hydraulic pump, auxiliary  
	hydraulic pump, auxiliary: the component which provides hydraulic fluid pressure to the using auxiliary system. typical parts are pump, motor, shaft, brushes, case, seal and switches.
hydraulic reservoir, auxiliary  
	hydraulic reservoir, auxiliary: the unit which stores hydraulic fluid for the auxiliary system. typical parts are reservoir, filler cap, filler neck and sight gauge.
hydraulic reservoir-main  
	hydraulic reservoir-main: the component which stores hydraulic fluid. typical parts are reservoir, filler cap, filler neck, sight gauge and seal.
hydraulic system - quantity indicator  
	hydraulic system - quantity indicator: the instrument and associated low level warning system which registers reservoir fluid quantity. typical parts are indicator, lamp, bulb and sight gauge.
hydraulic system - quantity sensor  
	hydraulic system - quantity sensor: the components which sense the fluid level and low level warning and transmit a signal to the quantity indicator. typical parts are transmitter, sensor and float switch.
hydraulic system indicating system  
	hydraulic system indicating system: the hydraulic pressure and quantity indicating system parts other than the indicator or sensor or for parts common to both pressure and quantity systems.
hydraulic system related event  
	an event involving the units and components which furnish hydraulic fluid under pressure to a common point (manifold) for re-distribution to other defined systems.
hydraulic, main system  
	hydraulic, main system: the portion of the system which is used to store and deliver hydraulic fluid to using systems. includes all hydraulic systems other than those designated emergency or standby. does not include the supply valves to the using systems. typical parts are tanks, accumulators, valves, pumps, levers, cables, line, hose, relief, shutoff valves, check valves, wiring, switches and external connectors.
ice detection system  
	ice detection system: the system which is used to detect and indicate the formation of ice. typical parts are panels and detectors. 
ice/rain protection system indication  
	ice/rain protection system indication: the system which is used to detect and indicate the presence of rain or the formation of ice. typical parts are panels and detectors.
ice/rain protection system related event  
	an event involving the units and components which provide a means of preventing or disposing of formation of ice and rain on various parts of the aircraft.
ice/rain protection system wiring  
	wiring specific to the ice/rain protection system
ice/rain protection systems  
	ice/rain protection systems: those units and components which provide a means of preventing or disposing of formation of ice and rain on various parts of the aircraft other than turbine power plants. includes alcohol pump, valves, tanks, propeller/rotor anti-icing system, wing heaters, water line heaters, pitot heaters, scoop heaters, windshield wipers and the electrical and heated air portion of windshield ice control. does not include the basic windshield panel.
ignition / starting
	for definitions see chapter 74 and 80.
ignition harness  
	ignition harness: the high tension insulated wiring from the magneto to the spark plug which provides a spark for combustion in reciprocating engines. for turbine engine, the high tension leads to burner can igniters used for starting. typical parts are lead, shielding, sleeve, ignition cable, terminal and ferrule.
ignition indication  
	ignition indication
ignition power supply  
	ignition power supply: the units and components which generate, control, furnish or distribute an electrical current to ignite the fuel air mixture in cylinders of reciprocating engines or in the combustion chambers or thrust augmenters of turbine engines.
ignition switching  
	ignition switching: the unit which provides a means of rendering the ignition power supply (magneto) inoperative. also used to direct electrical current to the engine starter motor. typical parts are start button, switch, back plate and contacts.
ignition system  
	ignition system: the units which ignite the fuel air mixture in the cylinders of reciprocating engines or in the combustion chambers or thrust augmenters of turbine engines.
ignition system - other  
	ignition system - other: components of the ignition system - other than those listed above.
ignition system exciter  
	ignition system exciter: the unit used with turbine engine ignition systems for starting engines. typical parts are exciter box, bracket and relay.
in-flight entertainment system  
	in-flight entertainment system: the portion of the cabin system used to entertain the passengers with music, video, information and games. includes items such as controllers, cabin control panels, audio and video equipment.
independent instruments
	those instruments, units and components which are not related to specific systems. includes items such as inclinometers, clocks, etc.
independent instruments  
	independent instruments: the units which measure time, log elapsed time of operation, or measures acceleration or deceleration forces. typical parts are hour meter, pressure switch and lines.
independent position determining
	that portion of the system which provides information to determine position and is mainly independent of ground installations or orbital satellites. includes items such as inertial guidance systems, weather radar, doppler, proximity warning, collision avoidance, star tracker, etc. also includes sextants/octants, etc.
independent position determining system  
	independent position determining system: the system which provides information to determine position and is primarily independent of ground installations. typical parts are star tracker and sextants/octants.
independent position determining system related event  
	an event involving the system which provides information to determine the aircraft's position and is primarily independent of ground installations. typical parts are star tracker and sextants/octants.
indicating
	for definitions see chapter 77.
indicating
	that portion of the system used to indicate operation or activation of propeller/propulsor systems. includes items such as light, switches, wiring etc.
indicating
	that portion of the system which indicates operation or activation of rotor systems. includes items such as lights, gauges, switches, wiring, etc.
indicating
	that portion of the system which indicates operation or activation of rotor systems. includes items such as lights, gauges, switches, wiring, etc. note: for an integral unit, only one section will be used.
indicating
	that portion of the system which is used to indicate oil quantity, temperature, and pressure of the oil. includes items such as transmitters, indicators, wiring, warning systems, etc. does not include indication if indication is accomplished as part of an integrated engine instrument system (ref. 77-40).
indicating
	that portion of the system which is used to indicate pressure. includes pressure warning system.
indicating
	that portion of the system which is used to indicate temperature and pressure of the pneumatic system. includes temperature and pressure warning systems.
indicating
	that portion of the system which is used to indicate temperature, pressure, control positions, etc. of the air systems. includes items such as transmitters, indicators, wiring, etc.
indicating
	that portion of the system which is used to indicate the flow rate, temperature, and pressure of the fuel. includes items such as transmitters, indicators, wiring, etc. does not include indication, if indication is accomplished as part of an integrated engine instrument system (ref. 77-40).
indicating
	that portion of the system which is used to indicate the quantity, temperature and pressure of the hydraulic fluid. includes items such as transmitters, indicators, wiring, warning systems, etc.
indicating
	that portion of the system which is used to indicate the quantity, temperature, and pressure of the fuel. includes pressure warning systems for pumping systems within the tank, etc. does not include engine fuel flow or pressure.
indicating
	that portion of the system which is used to indicate the quantity, temperature, and pressure of the water mixtures. includes items such as transmitters, indicators, wiring, etc.
indicating/recording system  
	indicating/recording system: the pictorial coverage of all instrument panels and controls. procedural coverage of those systems which give visual or aural warning of conditions in systems which record, store, or compute data from unrelated systems. includes the system or units which integrate indicating instruments into a central display system not related to any specific system.
indicating/recording systems related event  
	an event involving the pictorial coverage of all instrument panels and controls. procedural coverage of those systems which give visual or aural warning of conditions in systems which record, store, or compute data from unrelated systems. includes the system or units which integrate indicating instruments into a central display system not related to any specific system.
indication
	that portion of the system used to indicate quantity, condition and relative distribution of the water ballast.
induction vibrator  
	induction vibrator: the unit which provides a high tension spark to reciprocating engine spark plugs for starting.
inertial guidance system  
	inertial guidance system: the navigation system which relies upon gyro platforms and accelerometers for its operation. includes the control panel for the inertial navigation system; the instruments which receives their signal from the inertial navigation unit and the unit containing the inertial platform and digital computer portion of the system. typical parts are mode selector unit, control display unit and remote display unit.
information system  
	information system: the units and components which furnish a means of storing, updating and retrieving digital information traditionally provided on paper, microfilm or microfiche. includes units that are dedicated to the information storage and retrieval function such as the electronic library mass storage and controller. does not include units or components installed for other uses and shared with other systems, such as flight deck printer or general use display.
inspection and observation
	windows used for examining compartments and equipment in and about the airplane, and astrodomes used for celestial navigation. includes items such as transparent material, its frame, etc.
inspection and observation windows  
	inspection and observation windows: the windows used for examining compartments and equipment in and about the aeroplane such as door latches and cargo bays.
instrument & control panels  
	coverage of all panels fixed or movable with their replaceable components such as instruments, switches, circuit breakers, fuses, etc. also includes general coverage of instrument panel vibrators and other panel accessories.
instrument and control panels
	
instrument and control panels
	coverage of all panels fixed or movable with their replaceable components such as instruments, switches, circuit breakers, fuses, etc. also includes general coverage of instrument panel vibrators and other panel accessories.
instrument system wiring  
	wiring specific to the instrument systems.
insulation
	those insulation blankets which are used for heat and sound insulation. includes flight compartments, passenger compartment, cargo and accessory compartment insulation, etc.
insulation blankets  
	the insulation blankets which are used for heat and sound insulation. includes flight crew compartments, passenger compartment and additional compartment insulation.
integrated automatic tuning
	that portion of the system which maintains integrated control of the operating frequencies of communication and navigation transmitter/receivers after either a manually inserted command or a preprogrammed integrated flight system command. includes such items as integrated frequency selector panels, digital frequency control computers, integrated frequency display panels, etc.
integrated automatic tuning  
	integrated auto tuning: that portion of the system which maintains integrated control of the operating frequencies of communication and navigation transmitter/receivers after either a manually inserted command or a pre-programmed integrated flight system command. includes such items as integrated frequency selector panels, digital frequency control computers and integrated frequency display panels.
integrated circuits
	
integrated engine instrument systems
	that portion of the system which as an integrated concept receives several/all engine operating parameters and transmits this to a central processor for crew presentation. includes items such as display units, transmitters, receivers, computers, etc.
integrated flight director system  
	integrated flight director system: the system which computes, interrogates, and continuously displays basic attitude, position and steering information in order to maintain a particular course, heading or attitude. does not include flight management system components [code 11346000]. typical parts are integrated flight annunciator, integrated flight comparator, integrated flight computer/amplifier, integrated flight control and integrated flight indicators (i.e. horizontal situation indicator, attitude and direction indicator, attitude direction unit, heading and direction indicator, radio direction indicator, course direction indicator, flight director indicator, pictorial navigation indicator, flight command indicator, steering computer utilized in the integrated flight instrument systems and other components such as cables and connectors.
integrated modular avionics  
	generalize computing devices that can host software applications for system functions that had traditionally been implemented in dedicated hardware. the actual system functions are covered in their respective ata chapters. 
interior placards
	those placards, markings, self-illuminating signs, etc. required for interior general and emergency information, instructions, cautions, warnings, etc.
interior placards  
	those placards, markings, self-illuminating signs, etc.   required for interior general and emergency information, instructions, cautions, warnings, etc.
interphone
	that portion of the system which is used by flight and ground personnel to communicate between areas on the aircraft. includes items such as amplifier, handset, etc. does not include the interphone system within the flight compartment which is part of the integrating system.
interphone system  
	interphone system
investigation, cleanup and aerodynamic smoothness
	definition of damage classifications. cleanup of dents, cracks, scratches, corrosion, etc. aerodynamic smoothness requirements for the airplane, and permissible contour variations, gaps, and mismatch data.
investigation, cleanup and aerodynamic smoothness  
	definition of damage classifications. cleanup of dents, cracks, scratches, corrosion, etc. aerodynamic smoothness requirements for the airplane, and permissible contour variations, gaps, and mis-match data.
jacking
	provides information relative to jack points, adapters, tail supports, balance weights, jacks and jacking procedures utilized during aircraft maintenance and repair.
jacking  
	provides information relative to jack points, adapters, tail supports, balance weights, jacks and jacking procedures utilized during aircraft maintenance and repair.
jar:accessory drives means any drive shaft or utility mounting pad, furnished as a part of the auxiliary power unit, that is used for the extraction of power to drive accessories, components, or controls essential to the operation of the auxiliary power unit or any of its associated systems."
jar:exhaust gas temperature (turbine engines) means the average temperature of the exhaust gas stream obtained in an approved manner."
jar:manifold pressure piston engines means the absolute static pressure measured at the appropriate
jar: auxiliary power unit (apu) means any gas turbine-powered unit delivering rotating shaft power, compressor air, or both which is not intended for direct propulsion of an aircraft."
jet assist takeoff  
	those units or components dedicated to jet assist takeoff (jato) systems.
jet assisted takeoff
	those units or components dedicated to jet assisted takeoff (jato) systems.
landing and taxi aids  
	landing and taxi aids: the system providing guidance during approach, landing and taxiing. includes such items as, ils, paravisual director, ground guidance systems and markers.
landing and taxi aids related event  
	an event involving the system providing guidance during approach, landing and taxiing. includes such items as, ils, paravisual director, ground guidance systems and markers.
landing and taxiing aids
	that portion of the system which provides guidance during approach, landing and taxiing. includes items such as localizer, glide slope, ils, markers, paravisual director ground guidance systems, etc.
landing gear
	structure of the doors used to enclose the landing gear compartments. includes items such as structure, latching mechanisms, handles, insulation, lining, controls, attach/attached fittings, etc.
landing gear actuator  
	landing gear actuator: the actuating units which retract and extend the nose or main gear. this includes electric motors, hydraulic cylinders but not self contained electric motor driven hydraulic pumps such as power packs [code 2913].
landing gear attachment fittings (on fuselage)  
	landing gear attachment fittings (on fuselage): the fittings on the fuselage used for the attachment of the landing gear.
landing gear brake  
	landing gear brake: the parts of the brake unit mounted at the wheels only. typical parts are disc, cylinder, lining, seal, rotor and housing.
landing gear door actuator  
	landing gear door actuator: the actuating units which open and close the landing gear doors during gear extension and retraction.
landing gear door retraction section  
	landing gear door retraction section: the nose and main landing gear door actuating system parts other than the actuator. does not include door structure and hinges [code 11528000]. typical parts are bellcrank, rod, sequence valve, latch, lines and hoses.
landing gear doors  
	landing gear doors: the structural aspects of landing gear doors including hinges and seals on the wing, landing gear, and fuselage mounted doors. does not include the operating mechanism or position indicating or warning system [codes 11323100 or 11326000].
landing gear position and warning  
	landing gear position and warning: the system parts which provides indication and warning of the landing gear position. includes gear safety switches which prevent inadvertent actuation such as squat or air/ground sensor. typical parts are relay, switch bracket, lamp, horn, up lock switch, down lock switch and in transit switch.
landing gear position and warning system  related event  
	an event involving the system parts which provide indication and warning of the landing gear position. includes gear safety switches which prevent inadvertent actuation such as squat or air/ground sensor. typical parts are relay, switch bracket, lamp, horn, up lock switch, down lock switch and in transit switch.
landing gear related event  
	an event involving the units and components which furnish a means of supporting and steering the aircraft on the ground or water, and retracting and stowing the landing gear in flight. includes the functioning and maintenance aspects of the landing gear doors.
landing gear retract/extension system  
	landing gear retract/extension system: the miscellaneous parts of the retraction system other than actuators and door actuating mechanism. typical parts are levelling cylinders, centring system, actuator brackets, bungees, emergency extension system parts, uplocks/downlocks, uplock/downlock actuator and drag braces.
landing gear selector  
	landing gear selector: the selector valves, switches, or control levers used to direct a power source to actuators for gear retraction and extension.
landing gear shimmy damper  
	landing gear shimmy damper: the devices mounted on steerable and castoring wheel forks to reduce shimmy. typical parts are seal, springs and housing.
landing gear steering related event  
	an event involving the miscellaneous system parts other than the actuator which provide for aircraft directional control on the ground. includes main gear steering systems. does not include wheel braking systems. typical parts are, cable, rod end, collar, line, valve and accumulator.
landing gear steering system  
	landing gear steering system: the miscellaneous system parts other than the actuator which provide for aircraft directional control on the ground. includes main gear steering systems. does not include wheel braking systems. typical parts are, cable, rod end, collar, line, valve and accumulator.
landing gear steering unit  
	landing gear steering unit: the powered actuator which turns the wheel(s) for controlling direction of movement on the ground. typical parts are cylinders and seals.
landing gear system  
	landing gear system: the units and components which furnish a means of supporting and steering the aircraft on the ground or water and make it possible to retract and store the landing gear in flight. includes the functioning and maintenance aspects of the landing gear doors, but does not include the door structure.
landing gear system wiring  
	wiring specific to the landing gear system
landing gear tyres  
	landing gear tyres: the tyre defects and failures.
landing gear wheel fairing  
	landing gear wheel fairing: the wheel fairings and attaching parts. typical parts are bracket, fender and fairing.
landing gear wheel inner tube  
	landing gear wheel inner tube.
landing gear wheel/ski/float  
	landing gear wheel/ski/float: defective wheels, skis or seaplane floats and associated parts such as bearings, dust seals, bolts.
landing gear wheels and brakes  
	that portion of the system which provides for rolling and stopping the aircraft while on the ground and stopping wheel rotation after retraction. includes items such as bearings, tires, valves, de-boosters, swivel glands, anti-skid devices, pressure indicators, plumbing, etc.
lavatories
	the toilet and dressing room areas containing wash basins, dressing tables, and water closet. includes items such as mirrors, seats, cabinets, dispensing equipment, electrical outlets, wiring, etc. wash basins and water closets are included in chapter 38.
lavatories  
	lavatories: the units and associated systems and parts located in lavatories. does not include wash basins and other waste disposal items [code 11383000]. typical parts are trash containers and dispensers.
lavatories related event  
	an event involving the units and associated systems and parts located in lavatories, e.g. trash containers and dispensers.
leading edge and leading edge devices
	skins and structure of the wing leading edge and removable leading edge airfoils such as flaps, slats, attach/attached fittings, etc.
leading edge devices  
	leading edge devices: the structural aspects of the wing leading edge device control surface. includes hinge, brackets and bolts but does not include actuators or actuator mounting brackets [code 11278200]. typical parts are skin, rib, track, roller, bearing and carriage.
leading edge flap actuator  
	leading edge flap actuator: the components which cause movement of the wing leading edge device control surfaces. does not include related system or position indicating. typical parts are actuator, actuator bracket and seal.
leading edge flap position indicating system  
	leading edge flap position indicating system: the transmitter, indicator, warning lamps and associated circuitry providing relative position information of wing leading edge devices to the flight crew.
leveling
	provides information relative to those units or components dedicated to the specific function of leveling the aircraft.
leveling  
	those units or components dedicated to the specific function of leveling the aircraft.
leveling and weighting  
	data to properly level the aircraft for any of the various maintenance, overhaul or major repairs which might become necessary during the life of the aircraft. it shall also include those units or components which are specifically dedicated to record, store or compute weight and balance data. includes those maintenance practices necessary to prepare the aircraft for weighing. 
life-jacket  
	life-jacket: the buoyant jackets used to float incapacitated individuals in a face up attitude.
life-raft  
	life-raft: the inflatable raft which provides emergency flotation for one or more persons in event of an aircraft ditching. typical parts are the gas bottle, valve and manual pump.
lift augmenting
	that portion of the systems which controls the position and movement of variable opening wings slots, leading edge wing flaps, and other similar auxiliary devices used for increasing aerodynamic lift. includes items such as control handles, cables, actuators, linkages, warning systems, control surfaces, position indicators, etc. does not include trailing edge flaps.
lift augmenting - leading edge slat control system  
	leading edge flap control system: that portion of the systems which controls the position and movement of variable opening wings slots, leading edge wing flaps, and other similar auxiliary devices used for increasing aerodynamic lift. includes items such as control handles, cables, actuators, linkages, warning systems, control surfaces, position indicators, etc. does not include trailing edge flaps. 
lifting and shoring  
	this chapter shall include the necessary procedures to lift & shore aircraft in any of the conditions to which it may be subjected.   includes lifting and shoring procedures that may be employed during aircraft maintenance and repair.
lighting system  
	lighting system: the units and components which provide for external and internal illumination. includes light fixtures, switches and wiring. does not include warning lights for individual systems.
lighting system wiring  
	wiring specific to the lighting systems
localizer/very high frequency omni directional radio range system  
	localizer/very high frequency omni directional radio range system: the electronic portion of an instrument landing system that indicates the centreline of the runway to the pilot. includes localizer/very high frequency omni directional radio range systems. typical parts are receiver, antenna, indicator, circuit breaker, switch and antenna coaxial cable.
long range navigation system  
	long range navigation system: the radio navigation system and associated components and parts which provides for long range navigation en route when operating on signals from ground based master and slave transmitting stations. typical parts are antenna, coupler, cpu and receiver.
longeron/stringers (nacelle/pylon)  
	the longeron or stringer structure on the nacelles or pylons.
low tension coil  
	low tension coil: the magneto coils used on select engines such as the pratt and whitney, model r2800, to generate a low tension voltage for high tension voltage coil mounted at each engine cylinder. not generally used on modern light aircraft reciprocating engines.
mach trim  
	mach trim: the electronic/mechanical system for relieving the pilot of task of correcting progressive deficiency in aircraft pitch trim and longitudinal stability at high mach numbers. sensitive to mach number and vertical acceleration and automatically feeds primary pitch-trim demand to keep aircraft level or in desired attitude while leaving pilot authority to feed manual trim.
magnetic compass  
	magnetic compass: the instrument which indicates the magnetic heading of an aircraft by self contained magnetized needles. typical parts are compensator, adjusting screw, gasket, float and case.
magneto/distributor  
	magneto/distributor: the components which generate and distribute a high voltage to spark plugs in reciprocating engines for fuel/air combustion. typical parts are coil, breaker points, gear, bearing, contact finger, distributor block, frame, impulse coupling, condenser, rotor, cam, electrode and seal.
main
	that portion of the system which is used to store and deliver hydraulic fluid to using systems. includes items such as tanks, accumulators, valves, pumps, levers, switches, cables, plumbing, wiring, external connectors, etc. does not include the supply valves to the using systems.
main frame
	fuselage sections skins, main structure, secondary structure, and fairings of the complete fuselage with any structural differences grouped together and highlighted by fuselage section location. the section locations shall be defined by manufacturing joints or other suitable demarcations in sequence from front to rear. does not include movable partitions covered in chapter 25 nor the functional and maintenance aspects of variable aerodynamic fairings covered in chapter 27.
main frame (nacelle/pylon)  
	main frame (nacelle/pylon): the structure which houses and supports powerplants. includes the firewall and all structure aft on multi-engine aircraft and firewalls on single engine aircraft. does not include engine mounting or cowling.
main gear and doors
	that portion of the system which provides the major support for the aircraft while on the ground. includes items such as shock struts, bogie axles, drag struts, linkages, attach bolts, etc.
main landing gear  
	main landing gear: the miscellaneous parts of the main landing gear system which cannot be directly associated with a specific main gear code, such as attachment, emergency flotation, strut, axle or truck. does not include the retraction/extension system or the doors.
main landing gear attachment section  
	main landing gear attachment section: the parts and assemblies which attach the main landing gear to the airframe structure. typical parts are fittings, bolt, u-bolt, casting, supports and attaching hardware.
main landing gear related event  
	an event related to the miscellaneous parts of the main landing gear system which cannot be directly associated with a specific main gear code, such as attachment, emergency flotation or strut, axle or truck. does not include the retraction/extension system or the doors.
main landing gear strut/axle/truck  
	main landing gear strut/axle/truck: the main landing gear components and parts such as struts, axles and trucks which support the aircraft on the ground or water. typical parts are shock device, torque link, beam and skid/shock device on rotorcraft.
main rotor blades  
	the main rotor blades including attachment to the rotor head and heating mats on the blades for anti-icing. also includes tilt rotor blades. does not include the anti-icing system [code 11306000], or the rotor head [code 11622000]. typical parts are blade, attachment bolt and bushing,
main rotor brake  
	main rotor brake: the system which reduces rundown time or stops rotor rotation during engine power-off conditions. typical parts are brake, calliper, lining, seal and check valve.
main rotor control  
	main rotor control: the system components and parts, other than the servo control system, which control and indicate the attitude or the angle of attack of the rotor blades. typical parts are collective pitch lever, cyclic pitch stick, coupling and mixing units and position indicators.
main rotor drive system  
	main rotor drive system
main rotor drive system related event  
	an event involving the main rotor drive system.
main rotor drive system wiring  
	wiring specific to the main rotor drive system.
main rotor gearbox  
	main rotor gearbox: the component which transmits engine power to rotary motion in the main rotor mast. includes the mechanical power take-off(s) and accessory drives but does not include the accessories themselves such as alternators and hydraulic pumps. includes the gearbox lubricating system(s). typical parts are gearbox, case, shaft, gear, pump, seal and sun gear.
main rotor head  
	main rotor head: the rotating assembly which supports the main rotor blades including blade folding system and the swashplate if it is an integral part of the mast head assembly. also includes the head mechanism on tilt rotor craft. typical parts are sleeve, spindle, damper and fairing. does not include the controlling aspects [code 11671000].
main rotor indicating system  
	main rotor indicating system: the system used to indicate the operation or activation of the main rotor. includes lights, gauges, switches and wiring.
main rotor mast/swashplate  
	main rotor mast/swashplate: the vertical shaft which supports the main rotor head. typical parts are shaft, bearing, guide, mast, seal and swashplate.
main rotor system wiring  
	wiring specific to the main rotor system.
main rotor transmission mount  
	main rotor transmission mount: the suspension system for the transmission mounting in the airframe. typical parts are suspension bars and isolation mount.
main system electric or engine driven hydraulic pump  
	main system electric or engine driven hydraulic pump: the component which provides hydraulic fluid pressure to using systems, but does not include the using systems. includes power packs incorporating integral pumps, electric motors and solenoids used in certain light aircraft models. also includes pumps such as those used in flight control systems on large aircraft. typical parts are pump, motor, shaft, brush, solenoid, case, power pack, seals and switches.
maintenance information system  
	" maintenance information system: the portion of the onboard flight information system that supports all onboard maintenance system functions, maintenance technicians, and any ground based maintenance activity.
maintenance information systems
	that portion of the onboard flight information system that supports all onboard maintenance system functions, maintenance technicians, and any ground based maintenance activity.
marker beacon system  
	marker beacon system: the system which provides an aural and visual indication of passage over specified points on the glide path for landing under instrument meteorological conditions. does not includes control panel when it is an integral portion of the audio control panel [code 11235000]. typical parts are marker beacon antenna, receivers, visual/aural indication units, marker light and control panel.
master cylinder/brake valve  
	master cylinder/brake valve: the units which provide a power source for cylinder-power brake actuation. does not include connecting lines to brake units [code 11324000]. typical parts are seal, piston and housing.
materials
	description of materials (metallic and non-metallic) including extrusions, formed sections, sheet, sealants, adhesives, and special materials used in airplane repair. where possible, permissible substitutes and sources of supply will be given.
materials  
	description of materials (metallic and nonmetallic) including extrusions, formed sections, sheet, sealants, adhesives, and special materials used in airplane repair. where possible, permissible substitutes and sources of supply will be given.
microwave landing system  
	microwave landing system: the instrument landing system operating in the microwave spectrum which provides lateral and vertical guidance to pilots flying aircraft that have compatible avionics equipment. typical parts are receiver, antenna and control panel.
miscellaneous cabin system  
	miscellaneous cabin system: the portion of the cabin system used to support miscellaneous cabin functions.
miscellaneous hardware  
	for miscellaneous parts that are not associated with an installed aircraft component or system.
miscellaneous information system  
	miscellaneous information system: the portion of the onboard information system that supports other functions, as defined by the user, that cannot be related to the flight deck, passenger cabin, or maintenance.
miscellaneous information systems
	that portion of the onboard information system that supports other functions, as defined by the user, that cannot be related to the flight deck, passenger cabin, or maintenance.
miscellaneous wiring  
	any aircraft or engine wiring that is not associated a specific aircraft system.
mixture control  
	mixture control: the control for adjusting fuel-air mixture in piston engines. includes linkage from the cockpit lever to the carburetor or fuel injector servo but does not include the arm on mixture control shafts. typical parts are cable, rod, bellcrank, rod end, housing, clamp and cockpit control lever/knob.
moisture / air contaminant control
	that portion of the system used to control moisture in the air, to control ozone concentrations, to filter radioactive debris from conditioned air, and to treat the air with deodorizers, insecticides, etc.
moisture/air contaminant control  
	that portion of the system used to control moisture in the air, to control ozone concentrations, to filter radioactive debris from conditioned air, and to treat the air with deodorizers, insecticides, etc.
mooring
	those instructions necessary to moor or picket the aircraft in normal or abnormal conditions or with engines removed, etc.; for short or long terms in extremes of weather conditions. shall include equipment and materials required such as wheel chocks, mooring blocks, mooring cables, etc.; procedures such as ballasting, etc.; precautions and limitations such as control in high wind conditions, etc.
mooring  
	those instructions necessary to moor or picket the aircraft in normal or abnormal conditions or with engines removed, etc.; for short or long terms in extremes of weather conditions.   shall include equipment and materials required such as wheel chocks, mooring blocks, mooring cables, etc.; procedures such as ballasting, etc.; precautions and limitations such as control in high wind conditions, etc.
mounts
	the frame work, either of build-up construction or forgings which support the engine and attach it to the nacelle or pylon. includes items such as engine mounts, vibration dampeners, support links, mounting bolts, etc.
mounts, attachments
	suspension bars, vibration damping system providing attachment of the g.b.(s) to the airframe.
multipurpose electronic components
	
nacelle/pylon attachment fitting [wing)  
	the fittings on the wing used for attachment of the nacelle/pylon.
nacelle/pylon fairing  
	nacelle/pylon fairing: the panels mounted on the nacelle/pylon to optimize the airflow around these structures.
nacelle/pylon structure  
	nacelle/pylon structure: the structural units and associated components and members which furnish a means of mounting and housing the power plant or rotor assembly. includes skins, longerons, belt frames, stringers, clamshells, scuppers, doors, nacelle fillets, attachment fittings and the structure of power plant cowling inclusive of the structural portion of the inlet whether or not integral with the aircraft. structural portions of the exhaust system are excluded where they are not integral with the airframe.
nacelle/pylon, miscellaneous structure  
	miscellaneous structure on the nacelle/pylon structure which aids in the support of the primary structure.   includes such items as brackets, channels, stiffeners, doublers, clips, etc.
nacelle/pylon, system wiring  
	wiring specific to the nacelle/pylon system
navigation system  
	navigation system: the units and components which provide aircraft navigational information.
navigation system wiring  
	wiring specific to the navigation systems.
navigation systems related event  
	an event involving the units and components which provide aircraft navigational information.
noise analysis
	those instructions necessary to monitor, measure, diagnose and locate sources of noise in dynamic and structural components.
noise suppressor
	that portion of the system which reduces the noise generated by the exhaust gases. includes items such as pipes, baffles, shields, actuators, plumbing linkages, wiring, position indicators, warning systems, etc. use -10 where integral part of nozzle system.
non-radar weather system  
	non-radar weather system: the non-radar weather system and components which sense the electrostatic charges accumulated around a storm cell in order to "map out" that cell on an indicator.
nose gear / tail gear and doors
	that portion of the system which supports the nose of the aircraft while the aircraft is on the ground. includes items such as shock struts, drag struts, linkages, attach bolts, etc.
nose/tail landing gear  
	nose/tail landing gear: the miscellaneous parts of the nose or tail gear system which cannot be directly associated with a specific nose/tail gear code such as attachment, struts or axles. does not include extension/retraction mechanism, steering/damping system, or doors.
nose/tail landing gear attach section  
	nose/tail landing gear attach section: the parts and assemblies which attach the nose/tail gear to the airframe structure. applicable to fixed or retractable type landing gear.
nose/tail landing gear related event  
	an event related to the miscellaneous parts of the nose or tail gear system which cannot be directly associated with a specific nose/tail gear code such as attachment, struts or axles. does not include extension/retraction mechanism, steering/dampening system or doors.
nose/tail landing gear strut/axle  
	nose/tail landing gear strut/axle: the nose gear component parts such as shock struts and axles which support the aircraft on the ground. torque links are included but not steering or shimmy damping systems and units.
not used  
	this group is not in use at present
oil
	for definitions see chapter 79.
omega navigation system  
	omega navigation system: the navigation system which provides for geographical location of the aircraft down to sea level on a worldwide basis when operating on signals from eight ground-based omega very low frequency transmitting stations. typical parts are antenna, control unit or receiver, coaxial connecting cable, remote switches and connectors.
other navigation systems  
	other navigation systems: the navigation systems other than those mentioned above.
outer
	wing skins, primary structure, fillets, and fairings of the outer wing, and attach / attached fittings.
outside air temperature indicator/sensor  
	outside air temperature indicator/sensor: the unit mounted in the engine induction air intake to sense and transmit temperature to the cockpit indicator. also for the sensors and instruments which measure and indicate the temperature of ambient air outside the aircraft. includes associated circuitry and related parts. typical parts are sensor, indicator and case.
overheat detection system  
	overheat detection system: the system used to sense and indicate the presence of an overheat condition in any of the protected areas of the aircraft. typical parts are detectors, sensors, wiring, relays, amplifiers and test circuits.
oxygen system  
	oxygen system: the units and components which store, regulate, and deliver breathing oxygen to the passengers and crew. typical parts are bottles, relief valves, shut-off valves, outlets, regulators, masks and walk-around bottles.
oxygen system related event  
	an event involving the units and components which store, regulate and deliver breathing oxygen to the passengers and crew. typical parts are bottles, relief valves, shut-off valves, outlets, regulators, masks and walk-around bottles.
oxygen system wiring  
	wiring specific to the oxygen system.
parachute  
	the parachutes used for aircraft occupants to escape from the aircraft while it is airborne.
parking / storage
	those instructions necessary to park or store the aircraft in normal or abnormal conditions such as with engines removed, or aircraft damaged for short or long terms. shall include equipment and materials required such as landing gear and control surface locks, wheel chocks, blanking plugs and covers, cocooning materials, etc; procedures such as periodic engine running, control or drainage of fluid systems, static grounding, etc; precautions and limitations, such as landing gear strut pressures and wheel rotation, control of lifted equipment, etc.
parking and mooring related event  
	an event involving parking or mooring equipment of the aircraft.
parking, mooring, storage and return to service  
	those instructions necessary to park, store, moor and prepare the aircraft for service in any of the conditions to which it may be subjected. charts showing location of landing gear and control surface locks, blanking plugs and covers, mooring points, etc., shall be included. includes those maintenance practices necessary to prepare the aircraft for parking, mooring, or storage.
parking/storage  
	those instructions necessary to park, store, moor and prepare the aircraft for service in any of the conditions to which it may be subjected. charts showing location of landing gear and control surface locks, blanking plugs and covers, mooring points, etc., shall be included. includes those maintenance practices necessary to prepare the aircraft for parking, mooring, or storage.
passenger
	that portion of the system which furnishes oxygen to the passengers.
passenger / crew
	doors used for entrance and exit of the passengers and crew to and from the aircraft. includes items such as structure, latching mechanisms, handles, insulation, lining, controls, integral steps, ramps, handrails, attach/attached fittings, etc.
passenger address, entertainment and comfort  
	passenger entertainment system or components such as amplifier, cassette recorder player, control panel, speaker, video equipment, etc.
passenger address, entertainment and comfort systems  
	the passenger address, comfort and entertainment systems or components such as amplifier, cassette recorder player, control panel, speaker and video equipment.
passenger address, entertainment, and comfort
	that portion of the system used to address and entertain the passengers including installations for increased cabin comfort, such as active noise control systems. includes items such as amplifiers, speakers, handsets, reproducers, control panels, control -units, etc. also includes items of audio, video, and film equipment.
passenger cabin information system  
	passenger cabin information system: the portion of the onboard information system that supports passenger cabin information systems.
passenger cabin information systems
	that portion of the onboard information system that supports the passenger cabin, cabin operations, and flight attendants.
passenger compartment
	area in which the passengers are seated. includes lounges, lavatories, buffets / galleys and coatrooms. includes items such as transparent material, its frame, frost shield, etc.
passenger compartment
	the areas in which the passengers are seated. includes lounges but not dressing rooms. includes items such as seats, berths, overhead storage compartments, curtains, wall coverings, carpets, magazine racks, wardrobes, movable partitions, wall type thermometers, spare bulbs, fuses, etc.
passenger compartment
	the lighting sub-systems in the areas in which the passengers are seated and in buffet / galley, lavatories, lounges and coat rooms. includes items such as direct and indirect illumination, passenger call system, lighted signs, etc.
passenger compartment equipment  
	passenger compartment equipment: the removable general equipment and furnishings within the cabin. typical parts are seats, seat belts, hat rack, coat closet, panels and passenger comfort items such as personal blankets and pillows.
passenger compartment lighting  
	passenger compartment lighting: the lighting systems in the passenger seating compartment, lavatories, buffet/galley compartments and cabin carry-on baggage/coat areas. includes lamps for illumination of cabin, reading lamps, seat belt/no-smoking signs and passenger call systems. does not include emergency lighting [code 11335000]. typical parts are ballast, switch, transformer and lamps.
passenger compartment related event  
	an event involving the removable equipment and furnishings within the cabin of a general nature, e.g. seats, seat belts, hat rack, coat closet, panel and passenger comfort items such as personal blankets and pillows.
passenger compartment windows  
	passenger compartment windows: the cabin mounted windows in the passenger compartments. includes the inner and outer windows, frame attaching hardware, picture windows. does not include the windows in the escape hatches [code 11522000].
passenger oxygen system  
	passenger oxygen system: the portion of the main system which furnishes oxygen to the passengers. 
passenger/crew doors  
	passenger/crew doors: the cabin entrance doors not including door frames, warning systems, or cabin emergency exit doors/hatches. typical parts are hinges, actuators, latches, handle, seals, structure, spring, cable, bellcrank and skin.
phase adapter  
	phase adapter: the component used to change the alternating current phase of output for specific equipment.
pitot and static
	that portion of the system which is used to eliminate or prevent the formation of ice on the pitot and static systems.
pitot/static anti-ice system  
	pitot/static anti-ice system: the heating elements in the pitot-static heads installed to remove or prevent the formation of ice. typical parts are element, switch and wiring.
pitot/static system  
	pitot/static system: the system which provides a source of ram or static air for distribution to using instruments and pressure differential units such as automatic landing gear extender, altimeter, airspeed and rate of climb indicator. does not include the using units, instruments, the anti-ice heating elements, or the associated circuitry and switches [code 11303000]. typical parts are air pick up heads, lines, fittings, drain valves, static port and selector valves.
placards and markings  
	placards and markings: those installed by the manufacturer including those required by government regulations.
placards and markings related event  
	an event involving any placards, decals or markings installed by the manufacturer including those required by government regulations. the location of the item is essential. e.g. the 'closed and locked' decal is missing from the main passenger entrance door.
plate skin (nacelle/pylons)  
	the plates or skins on the nacelles or pylons.
plates-skin
	
plates/skins (elevator)  
	plates/skins (elevator)
plates/skins (horizontal stabilizer)  
	the plates/skins on the horizontal stabilizer.
plates/skins (rudder)  
	the plates or skins on the rudder structure.
plates/skins (vertical stabilizer)  
	plates/skins (vertical stabilizer)
pneumatic distribution system  
	pneumatic distribution system: the components and parts other than the regulator and shut-off valves delivering large volumes of compressed air from a power source to the control valves of using systems such as conditioning and pressurization. does not include engine and aerofoil anti-icing/de-icing. typical parts are regulator valve, actuator, duct, ducts valves, manifold, clamp, flow venturi, bellows, "y" duct and check valve.
pneumatic indicating system  
	pneumatic indicating system: the system components and parts which sense, transmit and indicate the temperature and pressure of air in the distribution system. includes the instrument which indicates air pressure in the pneumatic distribution system. does not include the using systems.
pneumatic system  
	pneumatic system: the units and components which deliver large volumes of compressed air from a power source to connecting points for other systems such as air conditioning, pressurization and de-icing.
pneumatic system related event  
	an event involving the units and components which deliver large volumes of compressed air from a power source to connecting points for other systems such as air conditioning, pressurization and de-icing.
pneumatic system wiring  
	wiring specific to the pneumatic system.
point in the induction system, usually in inches or millimetres of mercury."
portable
	that portion of the system which has an independent oxygen supply and which can be transported about the airplane.
portable oxygen system  
	portable oxygen system: the equipment attached to the portable bottle to regulate and dispense breathing oxygen, including the storage bottle for the portable oxygen system. 
position, warning, and ground safety switch
	that portion of the system which is used to indicate and warn of the position of the landing gear/doors. includes items such as switches, relays, lights, indicators, horns, wiring, etc.
potable
	that portion of the system which is used to store and deliver fresh drinking water. includes wash water system if the potable water is also used for washing.
potable water system  
	water and waste system: the system which is used to store and deliver fresh drinking water. 
power
	that portion of the system which directly or indirectly indicates power or thrust. includes items such as bmep, pressure-ratio, rpm, etc.
power control
	that portion of the system which furnishes a means of controlling the main fuel control or coordinator. includes controls to the propeller regulator on turbo-prop engines. includes items such as linkages, cables, levers, pulleys, switches, wiring, etc. does not include the units themselves.
power lever  
	power lever: the system which provides for control of carburetor or fuel injectors on piston engines; fuel controls or coordinator on turbine engines and propeller regulator turboprop engines. typical parts are cable, rod, rod end, bellcrank, bracket, clamp, actuator, shaft pin and knob.
power plant
	for definitions see chapter 71.
power recovery
	the turbines which extract energy from the exhaust gases and are coupled to the crankshaft.
power recovery turbine  
	power recovery turbine: the turbines which extract energy from the exhaust gases and are coupled to the crankshaft on reciprocating engines. includes the power recovery turbine and supercharger unit when external to the engine. does not include the drive shaft, coupling, and gears [code 11854000].
powerplant accessory gearbox related event  
	an event involving the units and components which are remotely installed and connected to the engine by a drive shaft but does not include those accessory drives which are bolted to and are immediately adjacent to the engine.
powerplant attachment fittings (on fuselage)  
	powerplant attachment fittings (on fuselage): the fittings on the fuselage used for the attachment of the powerplant e.g. the centre engine on tri-engine airplanes.
powerplant installation indications  
	powerplant installation indications: the system installed to provide continuous indication to the flight deck of the functioning of the power plant.
powerplant package related event  
	an event involving the power plant package.
powerplant system  
	the complete powerplant.
powerplant system wiring  
	wiring specific to the powerplant system.
pressure indicator  
	pressure indicator: the cabin pressurization system, pressure indicators and associated system parts.
pressure regulator, outflow valve  
	pressure regulator, outflow valve: the pressure regulating outflow/dump valves and associated parts such as linkage, filter and diaphragm.
pressure sensor  
	pressure sensor: the units and systems which measure differential pressure and transmit a signal. typical parts are pressure switch and transducer.
pressurization control
	that portion of the system used to control the pressure within the fuselage. includes items such as control valves, relief valves, indicators, switches, amplifiers, wiring, etc.
pressurization control system  
	pressurization control system: the miscellaneous system components or parts other than the controller, indicator, sensor, regulator, or outflow valves. typical parts are the amplifier, switches and electrical connectors.
primary and secondary power  
	that portion of the system which provides for connection of ac and dc power to using systems. includes items such as main and secondary busses, main system circuit breakers, power system devices, specific interface for computer-aided maintenance action etc.
printed circuit card assemblies
	
processes
	special processes for use in the repair of the airplane. will not include general engineering practices unless specific deviations are required. unique processes such as welding specifications, etc., relative to a single repair shall be incorporated in the repair and only referenced here.
processes  
	special processes for use in the repair of the airplane. will not include general engineering practices unless specific deviations are required. unique processes such as welding specifications, etc., relative to a single repair shall be incorporated in the repair and only referenced here.
propeller / rotor anti-ice/de-ice system  
	propeller / rotor anti-ice/de-ice system: the system components and parts which are used to eliminate or prevent the formation of ice on propellers and rotors. includes electrically heated systems, and alcohol spray systems. does not include the system parts on the rotating portion of the propeller [code 11611200] or the heating mats on the rotating portion of the rotor [code 11621000 or code 11641000]. typical parts are brush block, timer, switch, relay, harness and terminal block.
propeller assembly
	that portion of the system which rotates except the engine propeller shaft. includes items such as blades, dome, hub, spinner, slip ring, deicer boot, distributor valve, etc.
propeller assembly  
	the propeller assembly excluding controlling aspects or conditions which affect two or more parts of the propeller such as hub and blades.
propeller blade section  
	propeller blade section: the propeller blade but not the de-ice boots. includes retaining clamps and blade pitch change actuating mechanism which rotates with the propeller. typical parts are blade, clamp, link, motor, counterweight and bearings.
propeller braking  
	propeller braking: the portion of the system which is used to decrease run-down time or stop propeller rotation during engine power-off conditions. 
propeller control system  
	propeller control system: the propeller speed controlling system other than the governor unit or the synchronizer. includes the controlling systems of propellers regardless of the propeller type. (includes propeller regulator, negative torque switch and the rigging mechanism). also includes governor control linkage, levers, cable and associated brackets from the cockpit to the governor and the feather and unfeathering systems except the pump and accumulator. typical parts are cable, bellcrank, lever, rod end, pressure switch, solenoid valve and beta switch.
propeller de-ice boot  
	propeller de-ice boot: the de-ice/anti-ice system parts on the rotating parts of the propeller such as blades or spinner. does not include the power source, controls or other non-rotating system parts [code 11306000]. typical parts are boot and cuff, heat element and slip ring.
propeller feather/reversing  
	propeller feather/reversing: the system component and parts which store and deliver an energy charge for propeller feathering and unfeathering. includes the pump and associated motor, switch, circuitry and plumbing which provides the force for feathering the propeller blades for stopping the engine's rotation. typical parts are pump, motor, switch, accumulator, air valve and seal.
propeller governor  
	propeller governor: the unit which controls the propeller blade angle, but is limited to parts in and on the governor. does not include airframe furnished control linkage from the cockpit [code 11612000]. typical parts are shaft, flyweight, governor, spring, arm, seal, beta valve, pilot valve and head.
propeller hub section  
	propeller hub section: the hubs which house and support the rotating blades. includes the dome, but not the blade actuating mechanism [code 11611000] or the attachment to the engine flange [code 11611001].
propeller indicating system  
	propeller indicating system: the system components and parts which indicate the operation or activation of propeller systems. typical parts are switch, lamp, connector, harness and indicators.
propeller spinner section  
	propeller spinner section: the propeller spinner assemblies. typical parts are shell, back plate, bulkhead, rivets, screw, nut plate and brackets.
propeller synchronizer section  
	propeller synchronizer section: the unit which controls the synchronization of propellers on multi-engine aircraft. typical parts are synchronizer actuator, computer, synchrophaser and control unit.
propeller system  
	" propeller system: the complete mechanical or electrical propeller, pumps, motors, governor, alternators and those units and components external to or integral with the engine used to control the propeller blade angle. includes the propulsor duct assemblies, aerodynamic fairing of mechanical components, stators and vectoring systems.
propeller/propulsor system wiring  
	wiring specific to the propeller/propulsor systems
propellers / rotors
	that portion of the system which is used to eliminate or prevent the formation of ice on propellers or rotors. includes all components up to but not including rotating assembly.
propellers related event  
	an event involving the complete mechanical or electrical propeller, governor, alternators, pumps, motors those units and components external to or integral with the engine used to control the propeller blade angle. includes the propulsor duct assemblies, aerodynamic fairing of mechanical components, stators and vectoring systems.
propulsion augmentation  
	those units and components that, independent of the primary propulsion system, furnish additional thrust of short duration. includes solid or liquid propellants, controls, indicators, etc.
propulsor duct
	the complete duct assembly including vector drive attachment, fairings, stators, gearbox covers, etc.
propulsor duct  
	the complete duct assembly including vector drive attachment, fairings, stators, gearbox covers, etc.
rain repellent system  
	rain repellent system: the system and components used to prevent the build up of rain on the aircraft windshield. typical parts are motor, actuator and storage tank.
rate of climb indication  
	rate of climb indicator: the instrument which senses and indicates the rate of climb or descent of an aircraft. does not include the associated static system. includes the instantaneous vertical speed indicator (ivsi).
reciprocating engine  
	reciprocating engine problems such as over temperature, metal contamination and vibration.
reciprocating engine cylinder section  
	reciprocating engine cylinder section: the section of the engine which contains the cylinders and associated parts including the intake pipes and valve push rods/housing. also includes the cylinder baffles furnished by the engine manufacturer for engine cooling. does not include the connecting rods or cylinder flange hold down bolts/studs [code 11852000]. typical parts are piston, piston pin, exhaust valve, intake valve, valve guide, rocker arm, valve cover, cylinder, pushrod housing, intake pipe, piston pin plug, valve spring, rocker shaft, piston ring, oil drain lines, clamp and baffles.
reciprocating engine front section  
	reciprocating engine front section: the piston engine front cases which contain the propeller shaft, reduction gears, and accessory drive. typical parts are propeller shaft, gear, bearing, bushing, case, seal and pinion gear.
reciprocating engine in general  
	an event involving a reciprocating engine in general.
reciprocating engine liquid cooling  
	the components and parts that provide cooling liquid to the engine. includes the plumbing leading to and from the engine. typical parts are radiator, hoses, pump, drive belt, pulleys, bearings, seals, overflow line, overflow tank, pressure cap, thermostat.
reciprocating engine oil system  
	reciprocating engine oil system: the reciprocating engine components and parts that provide oil pressure and distribute lubricating oil within the engine. includes the plumbing leading to and from the using external systems and components which utilize engine system oil for operation. does not include the externally mounted oil system storage tanks and connecting lines [code 11791000], or the oil cooler lines, hoses and drain valves [code 11792000]. typical parts are pressure and scavenge pump, impeller, housing, filter, air-oil separator, crankcase breather, screen, element, relief valve, drive gear, adapter, pan, dipstick, cap and propeller governor oil lines.
reciprocating engine power section  
	reciprocating engine power section: the section of the reciprocating engine which contains the crankshaft, cam shaft, tappet guides, valve lifters, connecting rods and drive gears. does not include the push rods which are in the cylinder section [code 11853000] or rear case accessory drives. typical parts are crankcase, crankshaft, cam ring, lifter, camshaft, cylinder stud, connecting rod, bolt, through bolt, cap, rod bolt, main bearing and rod bearing.
reciprocating engine rear section  
	reciprocating engine rear section: the reciprocating engine case or section where accessories and associated engine drives are located. includes the power recovery turbine (prt) drive shaft, coupling and gears, the accessory pads, drives and drive seals but not the accessories. does not include oil pump, filter or internal lubricating system [code 11855000]. typical parts are seal, gear, drive shaft, case, bearing and spacer.
reciprocating engine related event  
	an event involving reciprocating engine problems, e.g. over temperature, metal contamination and vibration.
reciprocating engine supercharger  
	" the components and parts of the supercharger system. typical parts are case, impeller, rotors, bearings, seals, belts, pulleys or sprockets. does not include gears in engine rear section.
reciprocating engine supercharger - a blower or compressor driven by the engine, for supplying air under high pressure to the cylinders of an internal combustion engine"
reciprocating engine system wiring  
	wiring specific to the reciprocating engine system
recorders
	those systems and components used for recording data not related to specific systems. includes items such as flight recorders, performance or maintenance recorders, vg recorders, etc.
remote shared resources  
	the resources installed remotely from the main avionics that may be used by more than one system, e.g. remote data concentrator (rdc).
repair. the restoration of an aeronautical product to an airworthy condition to ensure that the aircraft continues to comply with the design aspects of the appropriate airworthiness requirements used for the issuance of the type certificate for the respective aircraft type, after it has been damaged or subjected to wear.
repairs
	typical repairs suitable for general use, not limited to one ata chapter.
repairs  
	typical repairs suitable for general use, not limited to one ata chapter.
replenishing
	those instructions necessary for the replenishment of fuel, oil, hydraulic fluid, water, other fluids, tire pressure, etc. tank and reservoir capacities in u.s., imperial and metric measure, shall be included. ana or other standard specification number and grade (if applicable) of fuel, oil, fluid, and other material used shall be given. specifications and grades should be shown grouped on one page to facilitate revisions. for fuel, give expansion volume, total fuel capacity, sump capacity, net fuel capacity (as applicable) for each tank. for oil, give allowance for expansion.
return to service
	those instructions necessary to prepare the aircraft for operation following mooring, parking, or a period of storage.
return to service  
	those instructions necessary to prepare the aircraft for operation following mooring, parking, or a period of storage.
rotor blades
	blade assemblies, including heating mats (electrical resistors) for anti-icing. for an integral rotor blade/rotor head unit, only one section will be used.
rotor blades
	part of the system ensuring rotor blade folding and spreading; includes the mechanical, hydraulic and electrical means permanently fitted on the aircraft.
rotor blades
	rotor blade assemblies, including the heating mate (electrical resistors) for anti -icing.
rotor blades folding  
	part of the system ensuring rotor blade folding and spreading; includes the mechanical, hydraulic and electrical means permanently fitted on the aircraft.
rotor control
	that portion of the system which controls the attitude by the angle of attack of the rotor blades. includes items such as collective pitch lever, cyclic pitch stick and corresponding linkage and cable controls, coupling, and mixing units, and artificial feel unit system. also includes the control position indicating system.
rotor drive indicating system  
	rotor drive indicating system: the indicators, sensors/transmitters and associated systems which indicate operation or activation of rotor systems. typical parts are tachometer, transmitter, circuit breaker, wiring harness, light, switch, indicator and needle.
rotor head
	tail rotor head. for an integral rotor blade/rotor head unit, only one section will be used.
rotor head(s)
	complete rotor head(s), including blade folding system(s). includes sleeves, spindles, dampers, rotor head fairing(s) as well as rotor shaft(s) and swashplate(s) if the rotor head and shaft constitute a non-dissociable assembly.
rotor shaft(s) / swashplate assembly(ies)
	rotor shaft(s) / swashplate assembly(ies) not included in -20.
rotorcraft flight control  
	the rotorcraft control system.
rotorcraft main rotor system  
	the rotorcraft's main rotor systems. jar:main rotor means the rotor or rotors that supply the principal lift to a rotorcraft.
rotorcraft main rotor systems related event  
	an event involving the rotorcraft main rotor systems. main rotor: the rotor that supplies the principal lift to a rotorcraft.
rotorcraft tail boom  
	rotorcraft tail boom: the structure, including exterior skin and truss framework, of tail booms on rotorcraft. includes attachment fittings for tail boom and stabilizer surfaces. typical parts are bulkhead, bracket, frame, frame tube and plates.
rotorcraft tail rotor system related event  
	an event involving the rotorcraft tail rotor system.
rotors but excluding propellers and rotating aerofoils of engines), and landing gear of an aircraft and
rotors flight control system wiring  
	wiring specific to the rotors flight control system
rudder & tab control system  
	rudder control system: the system components and parts from the cockpit pedals to the rudder surface which cause movement. includes manual and power assisted systems other than the actuator and autopilot actuating mechanism. also includes brackets for the support or attachment of pulleys, pushrods, and bellcranks. does not include control surface hinges or structure [code 11554000] or the yaw dampers [code 11221000]. typical parts are cable, rod end, turnbuckle, bolt, pedal, spring, torque tube, control valve and stops.
rudder - ruddevator
	removable airfoil which is attached to the vertical stabilizer and used for yaw control. includes items such as spars, ribs, stringers, skins, access covers, tabs, balance devices, attach/attached fittings, etc.
rudder / ruddevator and tab
	that portion of the systems which controls the position and movement of the rudder / ruddevator and rudder tabs. includes items such as the rudder pedals, tab control wheel, cables, boosters, linkages, control surfaces, position indicators, etc.
rudder actuator  
	rudder actuator: the system components and parts which actuate the rudder. typical parts are motor, actuator, actuator bracket, jackscrew, rod-end and seals.
rudder attachment fitting  
	rudder attachment fitting: the fittings on the rudder which are used to support equipment within the structure.
rudder feel system  
	rudder feel system: the system incorporated in the rudder control system which provides artificial resistance to the pilot's input to the rudder pedals.
rudder structure  
	rudder structure: the vertical aerofoil hinged to the vertical stabilizer. does not include the actuators, actuator mechanism or mounting [code 11272000]. typical parts are hinge, hinge fittings, bearing and bolts.
rudder tab control system  
	rudder tab control system: the system components and parts of the rudder trim control system, from the cockpit control to the rudder tab that causes an aerodynamic bias to the direct input from the pilot or autopilot. does not include hinges or structure [code 11554300] nor the yaw dampers [code 1122100]. typical parts are actuator, actuator bracket, cable, pulley, chain, rod end and bellcrank.
rudder tab structure  
	rudder tab structure: the structure of the movable surface hinged to the rudder surface for directional trim. typical parts are skin, hinge fitting, spars and ribs.
satcom
	that portion of the system which utilizes satellite communication systems (satcom).
satcom  
	satcom: that portion of the system which utilizes satellite communication systems (satcom).
satcom  
	that portion of the system which utilizes satellite communication systems (satcom).
scheduled maintenance checks
	those manufacturer recommended maintenance checks and inspections of the aircraft, its systems and units dictated by the time limits specified in -10 above. this section shall list in more detail the items which are outlined on the airline job forms (usually by title only), and shall cross -reference the detailed procedures included in the individual maintenance practices.
scheduled maintenance checks  
	those manufacturer recommended maintenance checks and inspections of the aircraft, its systems and units dictated by the time limits specified in -10 above. this section shall list in more detail the items which are outlined on the airline job forms (usually by title only), and shall cross-reference the detailed procedures included in the individual maintenance practices.
scheduled servicing
	those instructions necessary to carry out servicing that may be scheduled. includes instructions such as those for periodic lubrication of components, radioactivity decontamination, aircraft external and internal cleaning, disinfection of aircraft, sanitation of drinking water, etc. shall not include lubrication procedures required for the accomplishment of maintenance practices.
seat/cargo attachment fittings (on fuselage)  
	seat/cargo attachment fittings (on fuselage): the fittings on the fuselage used for the attachment of seats and cargo restraint mechanisms.
selcal  
	" selcal: that portion of the system which permits the selective calling of individual aircraft over radiotelephone channels linking a ground station with the aircraft. icao annex 10.
service
	exterior doors used primarily to gain access for servicing aircraft systems and equipment. includes items such as structure, latching mechanisms, handles, insulation, lining, controls, integral steps, handrails, attach/attached fittings, etc.
service doors  
	service doors: the exterior doors used to gain access for servicing aircraft systems and equipment.
servicing of the aircraft with liquids  
	servicing of the aircraft with liquids
servicing the aircraft with any type of aviation fuel  
	servicing the aircraft with any type of aviation fuel
servicing the aircraft with any type of hydraulic fluid  
	servicing the aircraft with any type of hydraulic fluid
servicing the aircraft with aviation lubricating oil  
	servicing the aircraft with aviation lubricating oil
servo system  
	servo system: the system which ensures distribution of mechanical or electrical power to the rotor servo-control system. includes items used to monitor and indicate operation of the servo control system. typical parts are pressure relief valves, electro valves, check valves and accumulators.
servo-control system
	that portion of the system which from a power source ensures distribution to the rotor servo-control.
shafts
	drive shafts, bearings, flexible couplings.
shared avionic resources  
	the resources, which provide processing, i/o, network and power supply conditioning capabilities necessary to host system functions. this sub-chapter describes the resources, the means of communication between these resources and their installation.
shoring
	those instructions necessary to support the aircraft during maintenance and repair. includes information on shoring materials and equipment, contour dimensions, shoring locations, etc.
shoring  
	" data necessary to support the aircraft during maintenance and repair.   includes information on shoring materials and equipment, contour dimensions, shoring locations, etc.
	"
smoke detection system  
	smoke detection system: the system used to sense and indicate the presence of smoke in any of the protected areas of the aircraft. typical parts are detector, sensor, wiring, relay, amplifier and test circuit.
spark plug/igniter  
	spark plug/igniter: the part which provides the spark in the reciprocating engine cylinders or combustion chamber of turbine engines.
spars/ribs (elevator)  
	spars/ribs (elevator)
spars/ribs (horizontal stabilizer)  
	the spars/ribs of the horizontal stabilizer.
spars/ribs (rudder)  
	the spars or ribs of the rudder structure.
spars/ribs (vertical stabilizer)  
	spars/ribs (vertical stabilizer)
speech communications
	that portion of the system which utilizes voice modulated electromagnetic waves to transmit and/or receive messages from air to air, or air to ground installations. includes h.f., v.h.f., u.h.f, etc., inflight telephone, communication transmitting & receiving equipment.
speech communications  
	speech communications: that portion of the system which utilizes voice modulated electromagnetic waves to transmit and/or receive messages from air to air, or between air and ground installations. includes hf, vhf and uhf in-flight radio telephone, communication transmitting and receiving equipment.
speech communications  
	that portion of the system which utilizes voice modulated electromagnetic waves to transmit and/or receive messages from air to air, or air to ground installations.  includes h.f., vhf., uhf., etc., inflight telephone, communication transmitting & receiving equipment.
speed - attitude correction
	that portion of the system that automatically maintains safe flight conditions by correcting for effects of speed and out -of-trim conditions by such means as automatic trim, mach trim or speed stability and mach feel. this includes sensing, computing, actuating, indicating, internal monitoring, and warning devices, etc.
speed-attitude correction system  
	speed-attitude correction: the system which automatically maintains safe flight conditions by correcting for effects of speed and out-of-trim conditions using means such as automatic trim, mach trim, or speed stability and mach feel. this includes sensing, computing, actuating, indicating, internal monitoring and warning devices.
spoiler structure  
	spoiler structure: the structural aspects of the movable surface on the upper surface of the wing for increasing drag and lift reducing functions. does not include operating mechanism such as actuators, hoses and lines.
spoiler system  
	spoiler system: the components that actuate the aerodynamic spoiler surfaces on the wing for lift reducing purposes. typical parts are seal, rod end bearing and rod end.
spoiler, drag devices and variable aerodynamic fairings
	that portion of the systems which controls the position and movement of the spoilers, drag devices and variable aerodynamic fairings. includes fairings. includes items such as control handles, cables, warning systems, linkages, spoilers, drag devices, position indicators, etc.
spoilers
	skins and structure of wing-mounted spoilers, airbrakes, lift dumpers, attach/attached fittings, etc.
stabilizer attachment fittings (on fuselage)  
	stabilizer attachment fittings (on fuselage): the fittings on the fuselage used for the attachment of the stabilizers.
stabilizer fairing  
	stabilizer fairing: the fixed or removable aerodynamic fairings between the fuselage and the stabilizer.
stabilizer position indicating system  
	stabilizer position indicating system: the system components and parts that sense, transmit and indicate relative position of movable stabilizers for purpose of pitch trim. typical parts are indicators and transmitters.
stabilizer system wiring  
	wiring specific to the stabilizer system
stall protection system  
	stall protection system: the system installed to provide an automatic reduction in the angle of attack if the aircraft approaches a stall.
stall warning system  
	stall warning system: the system components and parts, including the computer, which sense, transmit and provide aural, visual and stick shaker warning of an aircraft in an impending flight stall condition. typical parts are transducer, stall warning detector, switch, vane, horn, lamp, stick shaker, heater element, warning unit computer and module.
stall warning system related event  
	" the system components and parts, including the computer which sense, transmit and provide aural, visual and stick shaker warning of an aircraft in an impending flight stall condition. typical parts are transducer, stall warning detector, switch, vane, horn, lamp, stick shaker, heater element, warning unit computer, module, etc.
standard practices - engines  
	standard practices - engines
standard practices - propeller/rotor  
	standard practices - propeller/rotor
standard practices and structures - general  
	" standard practices, general procedures and typical repairs applicable to more than one chapter and are not specifically covered under [chapter (system) 52] thru [chapter (system) 57] sub-sys/sect breakdown.
standard practices-airframe  
	standard practices-airframe 
starter-generator  
	starter-generator: the single component used for both engine starting and direct current generation on turbine engines. typical parts are bearing, shaft, brush, fan, retainer ring, armature, brush, housing, end bell and terminals.
static discharge system  
	static discharge system: that portion of the system which dissipates static electricity. does not include bonding straps on engine or airframe used to assure paths for dc current. typical parts are wicks and bonding straps.
static discharging
	that portion of the system which is used to dissipate static electricity.
steering
	that portion of the system which is used to control the direction of movement of the aircraft on the ground. includes items such as actuating cylinders, controls, bogie swivel unlock, etc.
storage
	that portion of the system which is used to for the storage of water or water mixtures. includes tank sealing, attachment of bladder type cells, ventilating system, cell and tank interconnects, filling systems, etc.
storage
	that portion of the system which stores fuel. includes tank sealing, bladder type cells, ventilating system, cell and tank inter -connectors, over wing filler necks and caps, etc. also includes reservoir feed pumping systems and reservoirs within the tanks which are not part of the distribution system.
storage
	that portion of the system which stores water solely for the purpose of providing airship ballast. includes removable tanks (bladder cells), interconnecting balance pipes, filler valves, etc.
storage (dry sump)
	that portion of the system used for storage of oil. includes items such as tanks, filling systems, internal hoppers, baffles, tank sump and drain, etc. does not include tanks which are an integral portion of the engine.
supplemental air
	that portion of the system which varies and controls supplementary air flow of the exhaust system. includes items such as tertiary doors, actuators, linkages, springs, plumbing, wiring, position indicators, warning systems, etc.
supplementary air  
	that portion of the system which varies and controls supplementary air flow of the exhaust system.  includes items such as tertiary air doors, actuators, linkages, springs, plumbing, wiring, position indicators, warning systems, etc.
supplementary gear - skis, floats
	devices used to stabilize the aircraft while on the ground and prevent damage by ground contact. includes items such as shock strut, skid block, wheels, etc.
support of airplane for repair and alignment check procedures
	procedure for supporting the airplane to relieve loads during repairs. includes locations for supports and contour dimensions for required ground equipment.
support of airplane for repair and alignment check procedures  
	procedure for supporting the airplane to relieve loads during repairs. includes locations for supports and contour dimensions for required ground equipment.
survival elt (elt(s)).  an elt which is removable from an aircraft, stowed so as to facilitate its ready use in an emergency, and manually activated by survivors.
switching
	that portion of the system which provides a means of rendering the electrical power supply inoperative. includes items such as ignition switches, wiring, connectors, etc.
system monitor
	that which provides separate or external monitoring/remote readout (for maintenance or other purposes) not directly related to the internal system monitoring (for system integrity flight crew warning). this includes sensing, computing, indicating and warning devices, control panels, etc.
system monitor  
	system monitor: the unit which provides separate or external monitoring/remote readout (for maintenance or other purposes) not directly related to the internal system monitoring (for system integrity flight crew warning). this includes sensing, computing, indicating and warning devices and control panels.
tail cone door  
	the tail cone door. typical parts are hinges, structure and the latch mechanism.
tail pylon
	part of system ensuring tail pylon folding and spreading; includes mechanical, hydraulic and electrical means permanently fitted on the aircraft.
tail pylon folding  
	part of system ensuring tail pylon folding and spreading; includes mechanical, hydraulic and electrical means permanently fitted on the aircraft.
tail rotor blade  
	the tail rotor blade assemblies, including the heating mats (electrical resistors) for anti-icing but not the anti-icing system [code 11306000]. also includes attachment to rotor head. typical parts are blade and attach bolt.
tail rotor drive indicating system  
	tail rotor drive indicating system: the indicators, sensors, transmitters and associated systems which indicate operation or activation of the tail rotor drive system.
tail rotor drive shaft  
	tail rotor drive shaft: the shafts, flexible couplings and bearings, from the main rotor transmission to the tail rotor assembly. typical parts shaft, coupling, bearing and hanger.
tail rotor drive shaft related event  
	an event involving the shafts, flexible couplings and bearings, from the main rotor transmission to the tail rotor assembly. typical parts shaft, coupling, bearing and hanger.
tail rotor drive system  
	tail rotor drive system: the components transmitting power to the tail rotor.
tail rotor drive system related event  
	an event involving the rotorcraft's tail rotor drive system.
tail rotor drive system wiring  
	wiring specific to the tail rotor drive system
tail rotor gearbox  
	tail rotor gearbox: the gearboxes which transmit engine power to the tail rotor, including intermediate gearboxes. typical parts are case, seal, box, gear and spider gear.
tail rotor gearbox (90 deg) related event  
	an event involving the helicopter's tail rotor 90 degree gearbox.
tail rotor head  
	tail rotor head: the rotating assembly which supports the tail rotor blades. does not include the controlling aspects [code 11672000]. typical parts are trunnion, fairing, damper plate, shaft and hub.
tail rotor indicating system  
	tail rotor indicating system: the indicators, sensors, transmitters and associated systems which indicate operation or activation of the tail rotor system.
tail rotor system  
	tail rotor system: the rotorcraft's anti-torque rotor, rotating at the tail about a more or less horizontal axis.
tail rotor system wiring  
	wiring specific to the tail rotor system
taxiing
	those instructions necessary to taxi the aircraft in normal or abnormal conditions such as adverse weather conditions, etc. shall include procedures to be used such as use of engines, interphone and brakes, ground turning techniques, etc.; precautions and limitations such as jet intake and exhaust danger areas, minimum turning radius, friction coefficients for various ground conditions, etc.
taxiing  
	those instructions necessary to taxi the aircraft in normal or abnormal conditions such as adverse weather conditions, etc. shall include procedures to be used such as use of engines, interphone and brakes, ground turning techniques, etc.; precautions and limitations such as jet intake and exhaust danger areas, minimum turning radius, friction coefficients for various ground conditions, etc.
temperature
	that portion of the system which indicates temperatures in the engine. includes items such as cylinder head, exhaust (turbine inlet), etc.
temperature control
	that portion of the system used to control the temperature of the air. includes items such as control valves, thermal sensing devices, switches, indicators, amplifiers, wiring, etc.
temperature control system  
	temperature control system: the units and circuitry other than the control unit which are used for controlling the temperature of the air in the cockpit and cabin. typical parts are control valves, thermal sensing devices, switches, amplifiers and wiring.
the wiring specific to the autoflight/auto pilot system  
	the wiring specific to the autoflight/auto pilot system
their accessories and controls."
thrust reverser
	that portion of the system which is used to change the direction of the exhast gases for reverse thrust. includes items such as clamshells, linkages, levers, actuator, plumbing, wiring, indicators, warning systems, etc. use -10 where integral part of nozzle system.
thrust reverser system related event  
	an event involving the airframe furnished system and components mounted at turbo-jet engine exhaust tailpipes to direct engine thrust forward for deceleration. does not include the engine tailpipe. typical parts are door, flex drive, relay, solenoid, switch, switch arm, bolt, valve, line, deploy line, rail, cable, actuator, actuator rod, connector plug, seal, support, fitting, shaft, link, nozzle and hose.
tilt rotor flight control  
	tilt rotor flight control: the system components and parts of the tilt rotor control system which controls the direction of thrust of the aircraft's engines by rotating the dual main rotor assembly through up to 90-degrees. the zero or vertical position allows vertical takeoff. horizontal take-off runs and run-on landings are achieved by selection of an intermediate angle which gives adequate blade tip clearance from the runway surface.
time limits
	those manufacturer recommended time limits for inspections, maintenance and overhaul of the aircraft, its systems and units, and life of parts. for engine manufacturers this will include the flight cycle lives of major rotating components and other items designated critical.
time limits  
	" those manufacturer recommended time limits for inspections, maintenance and overhaul of the aircraft, its systems and units, and life of parts.
time limits/maintenance checks  
	manufacturers' recommended time limits for inspections, maintenance checks and inspections (both scheduled and unscheduled).
towing
	those instructions necessary to tow or push the aircraft in normal or other conditions such as towing with engines removed, etc. shall include equipment and materials required such as towing vehicles, tow bars, towing cables, etc.; procedures to be used such as ground turning techniques, use of interphone and brakes, connection of electrical power, etc.; precautions and limitations such as use of landing gear and control surface locks, minimum turning radius, maximum towing and pushing loads on nose landing gear, etc.
towing  
	equipment and materials required such as towing vehicles, tow bars, towing cables, etc.
towing and taxiing  
	those instructions necessary to tow and taxi the aircraft. charts showing location of attachment points, turning radius, etc., shall be included.   includes those maintenance practices necessary to prepare the aircraft for towing and taxiing.
towing and taxiing equipment related event  
	an event involving equipment of the aircraft specifically used for the towing and taxiing.
towing related event  
	an event involving the equipment of the aircraft used for towing.
traffic alert and collision avoidance system/airborne collision avoidance system  
	" traffic alert and collision avoidance system/airborne collision avoidance system: the system which provides information to determine relative aircraft positions and provides guidance to the flight crew on collision avoidance action. the system is independent of ground installations. typical parts are the collision avoidance monitoring units.
trailing edge and trailing edge devices
	trailing edge devices skins and structure of the wing and trailing edge and removable edge airfoils such as flaps and attach/attached fittings.
trailing edge flap actuator  
	trailing edge flap actuator: the components which actuate the trailing edge flaps. typical parts are motor, actuator, seal, jackscrew, rod end, actuator and support fittings.
trailing edge flap control system  
	trailing edge flap control system: the system components and parts, except the actuator and position indicator which control position and movement of wing trailing edge flaps. does not include the structure, carriage, fittings, tracks and rollers [code 11575300]; or the motor or actuator which causes movement of the flaps [code 11275200]. typical parts are control valve, switch, flow limiter, cable, torque tube, transmission, jackscrew, bypass valve, limit switch, return spring and bus cable.
trailing edge flap position indicating system  
	trailing edge flap position indicating system: the system components and parts that sense, transmit and indicate trailing edge flap position relative to the wing surface. typical parts are indicator, transmitter, position module, asymmetry switch and comparator.
trailing edge flap structure  
	trailing edge flap structure: the structural aspects of the fore, mid and aft segments of the flap surface mounted on the trailing edge of the wing. does not include the operating mechanism such as the actuators, brackets, hydraulic or electric motors. typical parts are skin, rib, spar, flap track, roller, flap carriage, bearing, bolt and rivet.
turbine assembly  
	turbine assembly: the turbine engine section which contains the turbine disc and associated nozzles and cases. typical parts are case, disc, blade, nozzle, bearing, bearing cover, power turbine, shaft, tie bolts and seals.
turbine engine accessory drive  
	" turbine engine accessory drive: the turbine engine mounted gearbox which provides mechanical power take-offs [to drive accessories such as pumps and generators] and chip detectors. does not include the remote gearboxes. [code 11830000].
turbine engine air inlet  
	turbine engine air inlet: the engine section through which air enters the compressor section. typical parts are inlet case, inlet cone, inlet screen, guide vane and inlet scroll.
turbine engine by-pass section  
	turbine engine by-pass section: the turbine engine non-rotating portion of engine airflow ducting for the prime purpose of adding to the thrust of turbo-jet engines. does not include the rotating components such as blades. typical parts are duct, skin and duct segment.
turbine engine combustion section  
	turbine engine combustion section: the engine section in which fuel and air are mixed and burned. typical parts are case, burner can, liner and vane ring.
turbine engine compressor  
	turbine engine compressor: the section of the engine in which the incoming air is compressed. does not include the operation of variable stator blades or linkage to the various valves and sense lines. [code 11753000] includes items such as case, the rotating portion of the compressor, lines, fan blades, disc, bearings, seals, mounts, carbon seals, disc tie bolts and shaft.
turbine engine generally  
	an event involving a turbine engine generally.
turbine engine oil system  
	turbine engine oil system: the turbine engine system components and parts which provide lubricating oil pressure, circulation and scavenging throughout the engine. does not include externally mounted storage tanks [code 11791000], connecting lines [code 11792000] or coolers [code 11792100]. typical parts are relief valve, fitting, seal, pump, screen, filter, seal, check valve and elements.
turbine engine propulsor section (rear mounted)  
	the section of the engine which contains a propulsor(s) and provides the majority of the energy generated. the propulsor may be turbine-driven or gear-driven. includes such items as propulsor turbines, propulsor blades, blade actuation, and frames (rotating and/or stationary).
turbine engine reduction gear, shaft section section (turboprop and/or front mounted gear driven propulsor)  
	the section of the engine which contains the propeller shafts and reduction gears. includes items such as drives for hose mounted accessories, etc. if applicable, the section of the engine which uses mechanical force, through a gear-driven system, to drive front mounted propulsors which provide the majority of the energy generated. includes items such as propulsor blades, actuation systems, reduction gears, drive-shafts, etc.
turbine engine related event  
	an event involving the units and components which are used to induce and convert fuel-air mixture into power, and transmit power to the propeller shaft (if any) and accessory drives. includes reports pertaining to bird strikes to engines/cowling.
turbine engine system wiring  
	wiring specific to the turbine engine system.
turbine governor  
	turbine governor: the component which controls the rpm of turbine engines. typical parts are governor, shaft, overspeed limiter and topping governor.
turbo-supercharger
	the turbines which extract energy from the exhaust gases and drive an air compressor.
turbocharger system wiring  
	wiring specific to the turbocharger system
turn and bank/rate of turn indicator  
	turn and bank/rate of turn indicator: the instrument actuated by gyroscopic forces and driven by air flow or electric motor to indicate both rate of turn and angle of bank.
tyre tube  
	for issues with wheel tire tubes. 
ultra high frequency communication system  
	uhf communication system: the system parts and circuitry including the receiver, transmitter and antenna used exclusively for ultra high frequency communications.
unscheduled maintenance checks
	those maintenance checks and inspections on the aircraft, its systems and units which are dictated by special or unusual conditions which are not related to the time limits specified in -10 above. includes inspections and checks such as hard landing, overweight landing, bird strike, turbulent air, lightning strike, slush ingestion, radioactive contamination, maintenance checks prior to engine-out ferry, etc.
unscheduled maintenance checks  
	those maintenance checks and inspections on the aircraft, its systems and units which are dictated by special or unusual conditions which are not related to the time limits specified in -10 above. includes inspections and checks such as hard landing, overweight landing, bird strike, turbulent air, lightning strike, slush ingestion, radioactive contamination, maintenance checks prior to engine-out ferry, etc.
unscheduled servicing
	those instructions necessary to carry out servicing that is normally unscheduled. includes instructions such as those for ice and snow removal from parked aircraft, etc.
vacuum distribution system  
	vacuum distribution system: the system components and parts, other than the pump, regulator, oil separator or indication system, which are used to distribute low volume, negative pressure air (suction) to systems such as gyroscopic flight instruments and cabin rate controller and to distribute low volume, positive pressure air to systems such as air foil de-icer boots. does not include the using systems. typical parts are pump, filter, regulator, lines, manifold, check valves and element.
vacuum indicating system  
	vacuum indicating system: the system components and parts including those which indicate negative air pressure in the vacuum lines. includes the indicator and warning systems. typical parts are the vacuum indicator and associated lines.
vacuum system  
	vacuum system: the units and components used to generate, deliver and regulate negative air pressure.
vacuum system related event  
	an event involving the units and components used to generate, deliver and regulate negative air pressure.
vacuum system wiring  
	wiring specific to the vacuum system.
ventral structure  
	the ventral structure and skin of the ventral fin mounted on the lower, aft fuselage for added directional stability. typical parts are skin, rib and rivets.
vertical stabilizer
	vertical airfoil to which the rudder is attached. includes items such as spars, ribs, stringers, skins, access covers, tips, attach/attached fittings, etc.
vertical stabilizer  
	vertical stabilizer: the structural aspects of the fixed vertical surface attached to the fuselage including the dorsal fin.
vertical stabilizer attachment fitting  
	vertical stabilizer attachment fitting: the fittings on the vertical stabilizer which are used to support equipment within the structure.
very high frequency communication system  
	vhf communication system: the system parts and circuitry including the receiver, transmitter and antenna used exclusively for very high frequency communications.
very high frequency omni-directional radio range system  
	very high frequency omni-directional radio range system: the radio navigation system in the very high frequency band used for determining a bearing relative to a ground transmitter and permits selection of one of 360 magnetic courses for navigation to a transmitter. typical parts are receiver, antenna and control panel.
vibration analysis
	those instructions necessary to monitor, measure, diagnose and locate sources of vibration in dynamic and structural components. the instructions shall cover related maintenance procedures such as main rotor tracking, tail rotor balancing, main rotor head absorber tuning/checking, general airframe vibration monitoring, etc.
wash
	that portion of the system which is used to store and deliver wash water which is not potable.
wash water system  
	wash water system: the system which is used to store and deliver wash water.
waste disposal
	that portion of the system which is used for disposal of water and waste. includes items such as wash basins, water closets, flushing systems, etc.
waste disposal system  
	waste disposal system: the system and components used for the disposal of water and waste. includes wash basins, water closets, flush systems and collection tanks. typical parts are valve, flush motor, lines and timer.
water and waste system  
	water and waste system: the fixed units and components which store and deliver for use, fresh water and those fixed components which store and deliver waste water.
water ballast  
	water ballast: the units and components provided for the storage, balancing, control, filling, discharge and dumping of water ballast.
water ballast dump system  
	that portion of the system used to dump water ballast during flight.   includes valves, remote/direct, manual/automatic controls, etc.
water ballast indicating system  
	that portion of the system used to indicate quantity, condition and relative distribution of the water ballast.
water ballast storage  
	that portion of the system which stores water solely for the purpose of providing airship ballast.   includes removable tanks (bladder cells), interconnecting balance pipes, filler valves, etc.
water ballast wiring  
	wiring of the water ballast system.
water injection - distribution  
	that portion of the system which is used to conduct water or water mixtures from the tanks or cells to the engine.  includes items such as plumbing, crossfeed system, pumps, valves, controls, etc.
water injection - dumping and purging  
	that portion of the system which is used to dump injection water and to purge the system.  includes items such as plumbing, valves, controls, etc.
water injection - indicating  
	that portion of the system which is used to indicate the quantity, temperature and pressure of the water mixtures.  includes items such as transmitters, indicators, wiring, etc.
water injection - storage  
	that portion of the system which is used for the storage of water or water mixtures.  includes tank sealing, attachment of bladder type cells, ventilating system, cell and tank interconnectors, filling systems, etc.
water injection system  
	water injection system: the system components and parts which inject a water mixture into induction system of turbine and reciprocating engines. typical parts are pump, switch, tank and valve.
water injection system wiring  
	wiring specific to the water injection system
water line anti-ice system  
	water line anti-ice system: the system which is used for prevention of ice in water supply and drain lines.
water lines
	that portion of the system which is used to prevent the formation of ice in water supply and drain lines.
water/waste system wiring  
	wiring specific to the water/waste system.
weather radar system  
	weather radar system: the system components and parts which transmit and receive signals independent of ground facilities to determine the relative position of adverse weather cells. typical parts are transceiver, antenna, the control panel for the weather avoidance radar system, accessory synchronizers, servo amplifier and scope.
weighing and balancing
	those units or components dedicated to the specific function of recording, storing or computing weight and balance data.
weighing and balancing  
	those units or components dedicated to the specific function of recording, storing or computing weight and balance data.
wheels and brakes
	that portion of the system which provides for rolling and stopping the aircraft while on the ground and stopping wheel rotation after retraction. includes items such as bearings, tires, valves, de -boosters, swivel glands, anti-skid devices, pressure indicators, plumbing, etc.
wheels and brakes related event  
	an event related to the aircraft's wheels and brakes. including the brake system miscellaneous parts other than the brake assembly, master cylinder, power valve, anti-skid system, the pressure source and associated system for emergency brake actuation and brake anti-ice system. typical parts are line, hose, fitting, park brake valve and gauge.
wind shear detection system  
	wind shear detection system: the flight instrument system that allows the pilot to detect a change in wind speed and/or direction in space, including updrafts and downdrafts. includes the outboard sensors, indicators and the warning system which notifies the pilot of the appropriate corrective action manoeuvre to take.
window system wiring  
	wiring specific to the window system
window/windshield system  
	window/windshield system: the fuselage and crew compartment windows inclusive of windshield and those windows installed in doors.
windows, windshields, and doors
	that portion of the system which is used to eliminate or prevent the formation of ice, frost or rain on the windows, windshields and doors.
windshield washer system  
	windshield washer system: the system and components used to remove any build up of rain and contaminants on the aircraft windshield. typical parts are motor, actuator and storage tank.
windshield wiper system  
	windshield wiper system: the system and components used to remove any build up of rain and contaminants on the aircraft windshield. typical parts are motor, actuator and wipers.
windshield/door rain/ice removal  
	windshield/door rain/ice removal: the system and components which is used to clear, eliminate or prevent the formation of rain, ice or frost on the windshield or windows. excludes reports of glass panel cracking [code 11561000]. typical parts are motor, actuator, wiper blade, hydraulic converter, shaft, line, switch, the electrical heating portion of heated glass panels, control units, alcohol de-ice system lines, tanks, pumps and valves.
wing attachment fitting  
	wing attachment fitting: the structure on the wing used for the attachment of fuselage, nacelle or pylon and landing gear to the wing and for the support of equipment within the wing.
wing attachment fittings (on fuselage)  
	wing attachment fittings (on fuselage): the fittings on the fuselage used for the attachment of the wings.
wing centre box  
	the centre wing box structure.
wing control surface attachment fittings  
	the fittings on the wing used for attachment of the control surface. includes flap attachment fittings.
wing flight control surface  
	wing flight control surface
wing folding system
	system that controls the on-ground movement of any portion of the main wing structure. includes mechanisms, linkages, actuators, locks, indicating/warning systems, etc.
wing folding system  
	system that controls the on-ground movement of any portion of the main wing structure.   includes mechanisms, linkages, actuators, locks, indicating/warning systems, etc.
wing fuselage attachment fitting  
	the fittings on the wing used for attachment to the fuselage structure.
wing landing gear attachment fitting  
	the fittings on the wing used for attachment of the landing gear.
wing longeron/stringer  
	the longerons or stringers in the wing structure.
wing main frame structure  
	wing main frame structure: the main frame structure of the wing.
wing miscellaneous structure  
	wing miscellaneous structure: the auxiliary or miscellaneous wing structure which includes the secondary items used for attachment. does not include plates or skins. typical parts are wing tip, clips, brackets, channels, angles and stiffeners.
wing plates/skins  
	wing plates/skins: the exterior covering of the wing including the access covers, tip tank fillets or fairings. includes the leading edge and trailing edge skin and wing mounted fuel compartment panels.
wing ribs/bulkheads  
	the ribs/bulkhead in the wing structure.
wing spar  
	a spar in the wing structure.
wing structure  
	wing structure: the centre wing and outer wing structural units and associated components and members which support the aircraft in flight.
wing systems wiring  
	wiring specific to the wing systems.
wing tip
	skins and structure of the wing tip and attached fittings.
wiring specific to the electrical power system not part of the power distribution systems  
	wiring specific to the electrical power system not part of the power distribution systems
wiring specific to the ignition system  
	wiring specific to the ignition system
yaw damper system  
	the yaw damper system associated with the autopilot system used for controlling direction. 