Conversion of data to ontology
	Nor
	tasks
		Protege - How do you want to use protege in 1? Protege is manly used for manual ontology specification. There might be some plugins that allow to process non structured or structured data, however we are not familiar with them.
			Determine the name and scope of ontology (RDF file)

	
		
Reasoning
	show reasoning over causes
	
	
	
	
Our participation in the project

	Create Common Domain Ontology
		Description - contains general classes and properties which are used in all the source data and all the use-cases (application) scenarios.
		
		Purpose identification
			- The ontology should contain common concepts and relationships which will allow to model/represent domain knowledge in application scenarios relevant in the context of management of Reliability and Quality of products/services. Application scenarios will include:
				
				Product documentation
					design documentation
				Feedback scenarios 
					reporting of incidents
					investigation
					testing
					auditing
				Control scenarios
					corrective actions
					operational manuals
					
		
		Knowledge acquisition
			Study the domain focusing on the application scenarios defined in the Purpose Identification phase. 
			
			- Identify relevant concepts from 
				- consultation with experts (of the application scenarios)-
				- relevant literature 	
					Failure Mode and Effect Analysis (FMEA)
					Fault Tree Analysis (FTA)
					Others?
				- relevant datasources - requires data samples
					Aircraft configuration data
					basic data of quality staff
					Failure analysis data - structured FMEA from AVIC
					field-quality-information
					quality audit data
					Quality competitiveness index in the manufacturing industry
					test-data
									
			Result
				A list of relevant concepts definitions. Each concepts has a label and text definition, possibly with references where the terms were found.
				List of examples using the concepts above. Each example has a full text description and specifies the terms it references. 
		
		
		Conceptual modeling
			Entity Relationship (ER) Conceptual Model
				Extract concepts and properties
				create entity-relationship diagram
			
			UFO-ization
				map the ER model to UFO
					identify concepts representing UFO categories objects, moments, relators, events, situations ...
					identify types of the classes - kinds, roles, phase ...
				
				enrichment - introduction of new concepts based on UFO patterns
					- e.g. Event, disposition, situation, pattern	
					
				Output
					UFO model 
						requirements
							- UFO model is valid 
							- contains equivalent version of the entities and relationships from the original ER model
							
							
		Reasoning
			Identify relevant feasible reasoning goals
				causes
			
			
				
							
		
	Create knowledge management tool
		A tool for manual modeling of knowledge according to the Domain Ontology or relevant parts of the domain ontology required for the . 
	
		Web based application
			Layered architecture:
				Client side - Web client, e.g. javascript framework React, 
				Communication - rest/http
				Server side 
					- java-ee/Spring
					- data access - Java Ontology Persistence API (JOPA), data schema is defined by the Domain Ontology
					- persistence storage - triple store 
				
		
		
